2023
The Sustainable Development Goals Report
Special edition
Contents
Foreword ......................................................... 2
Introduction ...................................................... 3
I. Promise in peril .................................................. 4
II. Sounding the alarm: SDG progress at the midpoint .................. 8
Goal 1 No poverty........................................................ 12
Goal 2 Zero hunger.......................................................1 4
Goal 3 Good health and well-being......................................... 16
Goal 4 Quality education..................................................2 0
Goal 5 Gender equality ...................................................2 2
Goal 6 Clean water and sanitation .........................................2 4
Goal 7 Affordable and clean energy........................................ 26
Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth..................................2 8
Goal 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure..............................3 0
Goal 10 Reduced inequalities...............................................3 2
Goal 11 Sustainable cities and communities .................................3 4
Goal 12 Responsible consumption and production ...........................3 6
Goal 13 Climate action.....................................................3 8
Goal 14 Life below water...................................................4 0
Goal 15 Life on land .......................................................4 2
Goal 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions................................4 4
Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals..........................................4 6
III. Breaking through to a better future for all ........................4 8
IV. Looking ahead: towards a rescue plan for people and planet........5 7
Visual summary ...................................................5 8
Note to the reader ................................................. 75
The Sustainable
Development Goals
Report 2023
:
Special edition
Towards a Rescue Plan
for People and Planet
Foreword
Halfway to the deadline for the 2030 Agenda, the SDG Progress Report; short-term debt could be exchanged for longer-term instruments at lower
Special Edition shows we are leaving more than half the world behind. interest rates; and the expansion of contingency financing to all countries in
Progress on more than 50 per cent of targets of the SDGs is weak and need. It can be achieved under the current rules and will enable immediate
insufficient; on 30 per cent, it has stalled or gone into reverse. These include investments in basic services, clean energy and the digital transition.
key targets on poverty, hunger and climate. Unless we act now, the 2030
But to deal with the root causes of this dire situation, we need deep reform
Agenda could become an epitaph for a world that might have been.
of our outdated, dysfunctional and unfair international financial architecture.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the triple crises of climate change, biodiversity We urgently need financial institutions that are fit for purpose; that ensure
loss and pollution are having a devastating and lasting impact. This has been the benefits of globalization flow to all; and that deliver on their mandate by
amplified by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which has driven increases in the providing a safety net for all countries in troubled times.
prices of food and energy and in the cost of access to finance, creating a
In short, we need a new Bretton Woods moment. Developing countries
global cost-of-living crisis affecting billions of people.
should have proportionate voice and representation in global decision-
Developing countries are bearing the brunt of our collective failure to invest making institutions and processes. Economic and financial decisions should
in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Many face a huge financing prioritize the well-being of people and planet. Governments and the private
gap and are buried under a mountain of debt. One in three countries is at sector should reorient their economies towards low-carbon, resilient
high risk of being unable to service their debt. patterns of growth.
Developed countries adopted expansionary fiscal and monetary policies This report calls for ambitious national benchmarks to eradicate poverty
during the pandemic and have largely returned to pre-pandemic growth and reduce inequality, focusing on key areas: expanding social protection
paths. But developing countries were unable to do so, in part because of and decent jobs; tackling the crisis in education; addressing gender
the risk that their currencies would collapse. Flows of Official Development inequality; and improving digital inclusion. These shifts must be supported
Assistance are far below the long-standing commitment of 0.7 per cent by strengthened national institutions, greater accountability, effective
of GNI. And the financial markets routinely charge developing countries regulatory frameworks and stronger digital infrastructure and data capacity.
interest rates up to eight times higher than developed countries.
All of this requires strengthened multilateral cooperation and support for
Climate finance is also far below commitments and developed countries the United Nations development system. Most of all, it requires ambitious,
have not delivered the $100 billion that was promised annually from 2020. decisive, committed action at the SDG Summit in September and the
Summit of the Future next year.
Meanwhile, vulnerable Middle-Income countries are denied debt relief
and concessional financing, and the G20’s Common Framework for Debt We are at a moment of truth and reckoning. But together, we can make this
Treatment is simply not working. a moment of hope. I urge all Member States to make 2023 the moment
when we jump-start progress on the SDGs, to create a more peaceful and
The SDGs are the universally-agreed road map to bridge economic and
prosperous future for all.
geopolitical divides, restore trust and rebuild solidarity. Failure to make
progress means inequalities will continue to deepen, increasing the risk
of a fragmented, two-speed world. No country can afford to see the 2030
Agenda fail.
This report sounds the alarm, calling for a Rescue Plan for People and
Planet. I hope the SDG Summit in September will agree to back this Rescue
Plan, based on a global alliance for SDG action and acceleration by all
stakeholders.
António Guterres
First and foremost, the international community must move forward on our
Secretary-General of the United Nations
proposed SDG Stimulus, to scale up affordable long-term financing for all
countries in need.
The SDG Stimulus has three areas for action: a massive surge in finance
for development, enabled by a transformation in the business model of
Multilateral Development Banks; a new initiative on debt, under which
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 2
Introduction
We have entered an age of polycrisis. Conflict, climate change, the This special edition of the Sustainable Development Goals Report reminds
lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other global challenges are us that there is still much work to be done. Its comprehensive assessment of
threatening to derail hard-earned progress towards the SDGs. global progress towards the SDGs paints a sobering picture. Yet, this report
also provides a vision of hope by showcasing the progress the world has
While the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic appears to be over, the world
made so far and the potential for further advancements.
is still reeling from its impacts. The recovery has been slow, uneven and
incomplete. The pandemic has created significant reversals in global health The task ahead is daunting, but it is not impossible. With just seven years left
outcomes. Childhood vaccinations have experienced the largest decline to deliver transformational change, political leaders and public institutions
in three decades, and tuberculosis and malaria deaths have increased will need to rally all stakeholders around the SDGs and strengthen
compared with pre-pandemic levels. COVID-19 has also had devastating collaboration, while building trust and accountability. Steps like regulatory
impacts on education, causing learning losses in four out of five of the innovations that align private sector governance models with sustainable
104 countries studied. Its economic after-effects are equally severe. The development objectives could spark significant change, if applied soon
pandemic interrupted three decades of steady progress of poverty reduction enough.
with the number of people living in extreme poverty increasing for the first
The SDG Summit taking place in September will be a critical moment for
time in a generation. It has also caused the largest rise in between-country
Member States to galvanize efforts and renew their commitment to the
inequality in three decades.
SDGs. It will also be an opportunity for all of us – citizens, civil society, the
By May 2023, the devastating consequences of war, conflict and human private sector and other stakeholders – to advocate for urgency, ambition
rights violations had displaced a staggering 110 million people, of which and action to realize the Goals.
35 million were refugees – the highest figures ever recorded. Nearly 7,000
The 2030 Agenda remains the clearest blueprint of humanity’s highest
people died during migration worldwide in 2022, with the number of deaths
aspirations. When historians write about the twenty-first century, they
in various regions returning to pre-pandemic levels and, in many instances,
will judge leaders and policymakers by whether they have succeeded in
even surpassing them.
transforming this blueprint into reality. Back in September 2015, when
The climate crisis is worsening as greenhouse gas emissions continue to global leaders met to adopt the SDGs, they declared that “the future of
rise. The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report finds that humanity and of our planet lies in our hands.” At this midpoint, these words
global temperature is already 1.1 °C above pre-industrial levels and is likely are truer than ever. It is now up to all of us to ensure that the Sustainable
to reach or surpass the critical 1.5 °C tipping point by 2035. Catastrophic Development Goals are achieved – in full and on time.
and intensifying heat waves, droughts, flooding and wildfires have become
.
far too frequent. Rising sea levels are threatening hundreds of millions of
people in coastal communities. In addition, the world is currently facing the
largest species extinction event since the dinosaur age and the oceans were
burdened with over 17 million metric tons of plastic pollution in 2021, with
projections showing a potential doubling or tripling by 2040.
Developing countries are grappling with an unprecedented rise in external
LI Junhua
debt following the pandemic, a situation compounded by inflation, rising
Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs
interest rates, trade tensions and constrained fiscal capacity. Reforms of
global governance and of international financial institutions are urgently
needed to make them fit for purpose – and fit for the future – by giving more
voice and participation to developing countries.
3 Introduction
I. Promise in peril
Leave no one behind. That defining principle of the 2030 Agenda for We can do better, and in moments of severe challenge, humanity has always
Sustainable Development is a shared promise by every country to work come through. Now is another of those moments. The SDG Summit, to
together to secure the rights and well-being of everyone on a healthy, be held in September 2023, must signal a genuine turning point. It must
thriving planet. But halfway to 2030, that promise is in peril. The Sustainable mobilize the political commitment and breakthroughs our world desperately
Development Goals are disappearing in the rear-view mirror, as is the hope needs. It must right the historic injustices at the core of the international
and rights of current and future generations. A fundamental shift is needed – financial system to give the most vulnerable countries and people a fair
in commitment, solidarity, financing and action – to put the world on a better chance at a better future. It must deliver a rescue plan for people and planet.
path. And it is needed now.
A. Delivering on commitments: where do we stand halfway to 2030?
these targets are moderately or severely off track; and over 30 per cent have
either seen no movement or regressed below the 2015 baseline.
Under current trends, 575 million people will still be living in extreme poverty
in 2030, and only about one third of countries will meet the target to halve
national poverty levels. Shockingly, the world is back at hunger levels not seen
since 2005, and food prices remain higher in more countries than in the period
2015–2019. The way things are going, it will take 286 years to close gender
gaps in legal protection and remove discriminatory laws. And in education,
the impacts of years of underinvestment and learning losses are such that, by
2030, some 84 million children will be out of school and 300 million children
or young people attending school will leave unable to read and write.
If ever there was an illumination of the short-sightedness of our prevailing
economic and political systems, it is the ratcheting up of the war on
nature. A small window of opportunity is fast closing to limit the rise in
global temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius, prevent the worst impacts of
the climate crisis and secure climate justice for people, communities and
Early efforts after the Sustainable Development Goals were adopted countries on the front lines of climate change. Carbon dioxide levels continue
produced some favourable trends. Extreme poverty and child mortality to rise – to a level not seen in 2 million years. At the current rate of progress,
rates continued to fall. Inroads were made against such diseases as HIV renewable energy sources will continue to account for a mere fraction of
and hepatitis. Some targets for gender equality were seeing positive results. our energy supplies in 2030, some 660 million people will remain without
Electricity access in the poorest countries was on the rise, and the share of electricity, and close to 2 billion people will continue to rely on polluting fuels
renewables in the energy mix was increasing. Globally, unemployment was and technologies for cooking. So much of our lives and health depend on
back to levels not seen since before the 2008 financial crisis. The proportion nature, yet it could take another 25 years to halt deforestation, while vast
of waters under national jurisdiction covered by marine protected areas numbers of species worldwide are threatened with extinction.
more than doubled in five years. But it is clear now that too much of that
The lack of progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals is
progress was fragile and most of it was too slow. In the past three years, the
universal, but it is abundantly clear that developing countries and the world’s
coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the war in Ukraine and climate-
poorest and most vulnerable people are bearing the brunt of our collective
related disasters have exacerbated already faltering progress.
failure. This is a direct result of global injustices that go back hundreds of
It is time to sound the alarm. At the midpoint on our way to 2030, the years but are still playing out today. The compounding effects of climate,
Sustainable Development Goals are in deep trouble. An assessment of the COVID-19 and economic injustices are leaving many developing countries
around 140 targets for which trend data is available shows that about half of with fewer options and even fewer resources to make the Goals a reality.
B. Breaking through to a better future for all
We cannot simply continue with more of the same and expect a different common purpose across the international community and a global alliance for
result. We cannot persist with a morally bankrupt financial system and expect Sustainable Development Goals-related action across business, civil society,
developing countries to meet targets that developed countries met with science, young people, local authorities and more. It requires that we come
far fewer constraints. The 2030 Agenda stated that this generation could together in September to deliver a rescue plan for people and planet.
be the first to succeed in ending poverty – and the last to have a chance of
Building on the evidence captured in the Global Sustainable Development
saving the planet. This higher purpose remains within grasp, but it requires
Report and on the lessons since 2015, the present report identifies a series of
an unprecedented effort by individual Governments, a renewed sense of
urgent actions for your consideration in five key areas.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 4
Five key areas for urgent action
1 4
Heads of State and Government should recommit The international community should recommit at
to seven years of accelerated, sustained and the SDG Summit to deliver on the Addis Ababa
transformative action, both nationally and Action Agenda and to mobilize the resources
internationally, to deliver on the promise of the and investment needed for developing countries
Sustainable Development Goals. to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals,
particularly those in special situations and
experiencing acute vulnerability.
2
5
Governments should advance concrete, integrated
and targeted policies and actions to eradicate
Member States should facilitate the continued
poverty, reduce inequality and end the war on
strengthening of the United Nations development
nature, with a focus on advancing the rights
system and boost the capacity of the multilateral
of women and girls and empowering the most
system to tackle emerging challenges and address
vulnerable.
Sustainable Development Goals-related gaps and
weaknesses in the international architecture that
3 have emerged since 2015.
Governments should strengthen national and
subnational capacity, accountability and public
institutions to deliver accelerated progress towards
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
5 Promise in peril
First, Heads of State and Government should recommit to seven years This calls for immediate action: (a) to tackle the high cost of debt and the
of accelerated, sustained and transformative action, both nationally and rising risks of debt distress, including by converting short-term, high-interest
internationally, to deliver on the promise of the Sustainable Development borrowing into long-term (more than 30 year) debt at lower interest rates;
Goals. (b) to massively scale-up affordable, long-term financing for development,
especially through multilateral development banks, rechannelling special
This calls for strengthening social cohesion in order to secure dignity,
drawing rights and aligning all financing flows with the Goals; and (c) to
opportunity and rights for all while reorienting economies through green
expand contingency financing to all countries in need.
and digital transitions and towards resilient trajectories compatible with
the goal of the Paris Agreement to limit the global temperature increase Member States should recognize and address the need for deep reforms of
to 1.5 degrees Celsius. It calls for a once-in-a-generation commitment to the international financial architecture through a new Bretton Woods moment,
overhaul the international financial and economic system so that it responds including by enhancing the voice and participation of developing countries in
to today’s challenges, not those of the 1940s. And it calls for unprecedented the governance of international financial institutions. This is essential in order
collaboration among members of the Group of 20 and support for all to ensure that the financial architecture delivers for all developing countries
developing countries to advance Sustainable Development Goals-related and secures urgent access to grants and long-term concessional finance
and climate-related action. as they transition to renewable energy-based, climate-resilient, inclusive
economies. It requires building on the lessons from recent efforts to mobilize
Member States should adopt an ambitious and forward-looking political
private finance, including revising risk appetite and the criteria used by credit
declaration and present global and national commitments for Goals-related
ratings agencies and adjusting policies and instruments.
transformation at the SDG Summit.
Finally, Member States should facilitate the continued strengthening of
Second, Governments should advance concrete, integrated and targeted
the United Nations development system and boost the capacity of the
policies and actions to eradicate poverty, reduce inequality and end the
multilateral system to tackle emerging challenges and address Sustainable
war on nature, with a focus on advancing the rights of women and girls and
Development Goals-related gaps and weaknesses in the international
empowering the most vulnerable.
architecture that have emerged since 2015.
This requires the following: giving meaning to the commitment to leave no
The United Nations development system continues to play a crucial role in
one behind by expanding social protection floors and access to essential
supporting countries in delivering on their national Goals-related ambitions.
services; creating job opportunities in the care, digital and green economies;
What the system offers has evolved considerably since 2015, enabled
urgently tackling the profound crisis in education; strengthening action to
by the most ambitious reforms in decades. The UN system will continue
advance gender equality, leveraging digital technologies to close divides;
to strengthen its offer. Member States should continue to support the
supporting the inclusion of persons displaced by crises; and tackling the
contribution of Resident Coordinators and United Nations country teams by
exclusion of marginalized groups, such as persons with disabilities.
delivering on the funding compact, ensuring the resident coordinator system
is fully funded and further capitalizing the Joint Sustainable Development
Leaders should embrace the climate acceleration agenda to drive a just
Goals Fund.
renewables revolution and secure climate justice for those on the front lines
of the climate crisis. They must also deliver on the Kunming-Montreal Global
Many of the proposals in Our Common Agenda are already supporting
Biodiversity Framework, work to further reduce risks from disasters and build
acceleration towards achieving the Goals. Member States, through the
integrated and sustainable food, water and sanitation systems while making
forthcoming Summit of the Future, should build on the commitment and
the right to a healthy environment a reality for all people.
direction provided by the SDG Summit to ensure progress in other areas
of particular importance for Goals-related progress. Those areas include
Third, Governments should strengthen national and subnational capacity,
reforming the international architecture, going beyond gross domestic
accountability and public institutions to deliver accelerated progress
product (GDP), strengthening digital cooperation, boosting youth
towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
participation in decision-making, transforming education, establishing an
Delivery of the Sustainable Development Goals must become a central emergency platform and advancing a new agenda for peace. Further action
focus for national planning, oversight mechanisms and domestic budgets. is also needed to boost the capacities of developing countries in the areas
Major investments are needed to strengthen public sector capacity and build of trade and technology, to align global trading rules with the Sustainable
appropriate digital infrastructure. Local and subnational governments must be Development Goals and to establish more efficient and effective technology
empowered and supported to bring implementation of the Goals to the ground transfer mechanisms.
level. An effective regulatory framework is needed to align private sector
History has shown that the worst hardships can be overcome through
governance models with sustainable development objectives. A fresh push is
human determination, solidarity, leadership and resilience. The destruction
needed to reap the data dividend, and the monitoring, follow-up and review
brought about by World War II was followed by new forms of solidarity and
of the Goals must be taken to the next level, including by strengthening civic
cooperation through the United Nations and the Marshall Plan. This period
space and public engagement in policy- and decision-making.
also witnessed advances in global positioning systems, modern air travel and
Fourth, to ensure that developing countries can deliver in these areas, the satellite communications, as well as accelerated decolonization. Preventing
international community should recommit at the SDG Summit to deliver widespread hunger and starvation in the 1960s galvanized investment in
on the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and to mobilize the resources and agriculture and the green revolution. Other more recent examples include
investment needed for developing countries to achieve the Sustainable the global responses to fight HIV/AIDS and, in part, the surge in action and
Development Goals, particularly those in special situations and community to save lives and livelihoods during the COVID-19 pandemic.
experiencing acute vulnerability.
These outcomes, by no means inevitable, resulted from unique combinations
Member States should endorse and deliver a $500 billion per year of purpose, solidarity, ingenuity and technology. This moment of peril
Sustainable Development Goals stimulus plan between now and 2030. demands a similar response if we are to deliver on our 2015 promise.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 6
7 Section
II. Sounding the alarm: Sustainable Development Goals progress
at the midpoint
At the midpoint of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, a sobering and challenges, bringing attention to areas requiring urgent attention. This
reality emerges: the world is falling short of meeting most of the Goals assessment compels us to acknowledge the existing gaps and calls for a
by 2030. While certain areas have witnessed progress, there remains a redoubling of efforts on a global scale.
concerning proportion of targets that are either progressing too slowly or
Moreover, this section highlights the remarkable advancements in data
regressing.
availability for SDG indicators and proactive measures taken by the data
This section of the report provides a comprehensive overview of progress and statistical community, showcasing the progress made over time. It
under each goal and offers a candid assessment based on the latest available underscores the vital role of investing in data for accelerating SDG progress.
data and estimates from more than 50 international agencies. Through an By harnessing the power of data, we can gain valuable insights and drive
examination of selected targets under each goal, we uncover both successes effective actions towards realizing the 2030 Agenda.
A. Taking stock of SDG progress at the midpoint
A reality checkT wofo tdhifefe prerontg greuisdse mlayaedrse foorn t wthoe- aSnDdG thsr eaet- ltihnee tmitleids.p oint towards Progress assessment for the 17 Goals based on assessed targets, 2023 or latest
Guides for edge of right-aligned text and bars are uniform (and account for
2030 reveals ssipganciefi cfoarn ott hcehra lallnegnugaegses. )T.he latest global-level data and data (percentage)
assessments frSowmat cchuesst aorde ioafn f uallg, e75n%ci,e 5s01 %pa ainndt 2a5 c%o ncocleorr.ning picture: of G1
the approximaAtelll yb a1r4s 0sh toaurldg ebtes 0 tph6a wt cidaen be evaluated, half of them show G2
G3
moderate or sewviethr e0 dspeavciiantgi ownitsh ifnr ocmou ntthrey cdaetesgiroerdie st rajectory. Furthermore, G4
and 0p2 spacing between country categories.
more than 30 per cent of these targets have experienced no progress G5
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart, G6
or, even worse0, rpe6g srpeascsiinogn f rbomel omwai nth reeg 2io0n1s5. baseline. This assessment G7
underscores thNeu umrbgeern latb neelse sdh ofoulrd i nbete innssidifeie cdo leofrf boarrtss ( itdoe aelnlys) uanred t0hpe3 fSroDmG esd ge. G8
If outside, left-aligned and 0p3 away. G9
stay on course and progress towards a sustainable future for all. G10
Number line 0p2 below bottom bar. Stroke .25pt.
G11
Tick marks 0p3 long. Text 0p1 below tick mark. G12
G13
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and
G14
text.
G15
Legend color bubble 0p6. G16
Legend 0p6 below number line labels. Any note 0p6 below legend. G17
Note uses hanging indent. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
On track or target met Fair progress, but acceleration needed
Stagnation or regression Insufficient data
B. Unfolding a remarkable journey of SDG data and monitoring
Despite the challenges in securing timely data across all 169 targets, Proportion of global SDG indicators, by availability of standards and national
considerable progress has been achieved in the availability of internationally data, 2016-2022 (percentage)
comparable data: the number of indicators included in the global SDG database
100
has increased from 115 in 2016 to 225 in 2023. The number of data records
in the database has increased from 330, 000 in 2016 to 2.7 million as of May 80
2023. In just seven years, the global SDG database has expanded significantly.
60
Significant strides have also been made in the methodological development
of the SDG indicators as well. In 2016, a concerning 39 per cent of the SDG
40
indicators lacked internationally established methodology or standards. By
March 2020, all indicators had a well-established and internationally agreed
20
methodology, which ensure the comparability, accuracy, reliability, and
usefulness of our measurements. Continuous refinement and harmonization
0
of methodologies have made the indicator framework more robust. These 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
advancements in methodology provide a solid foundation for monitoring Conceptually clear and have good country coverage
the performance of the SDGs. Moreover, the proportion of indicators that Conceptually clear but insufficient country coverage
are conceptually clear and have good country coverage has increased No internationally established methods
significantly from 36 per cent in 2016 to 66 per cent in 2022.
1 The Global and regional data and assessments for all targets and indicators for which information is available can be found in the Statistical Annex at
https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 8
While these achievements are worthy of celebration, we cannot ignore the information on these critical issues that profoundly impact our future and
persistent gaps that still challenge our data landscape. Geographic coverage, our planet. Furthermore, a significant challenge lies in the timeliness of data,
timeliness, and disaggregation remain areas of concern. For several cross- with less than 30 per cent of the latest available data from 2022 and 2023,
cutting goals such as climate action (Goal 13), gender equality (Goal 5), and while over half of the latest data comes from 2020 and 2021. As we embark
peace, justice, and strong institutions (Goal 16), less than half of the 193 on delivering a rescue plan for people and planet at the SDG Summit,
countries or areas have internationally comparable data since 2015. This accelerated action for data is imperative.
stark reality serves as a reminder that we must prioritize gathering essential
National statistical offices are increasingly playing a coordination role, but challenges persist
Empowered by the SDG data requirements, many national statistical offices the implementation of the Cape Town Global Action Plan for Sustainable
(NSOs) have taken a bigger coordination or stewardship role within their Development Data showed that around 53 per cent of the NSOs expressed
national statistical systems. In Cambodia, the National Institute of Statistics dissatisfaction with their coordination role. Particularly, in low- and
was mandated by the new statistics law enacted in 2022 to lead statistical lower-middle income countries, as many as 74 per cent of NSOs felt a
data collection and analysis in the country. Similarly, the Philippine Statistics need for improvement. Inadequate institutional mechanisms, ineffective
Authority was designated as the official repository of the SDG indicators in communication channels for information sharing, and lack of incentives were
the country through a resolution passed in 2016, highlighting their important identified as the top three challenges impeding better coordination.
role in monitoring and reporting on SDG progress.
Coordination capacity of the NSO with partners inside of the National Statistical
In Finland, Malaysia and Uganda, the NSOs are leading the national technical System, July 2021 (percentage)
working group on SDG data, by providing advice on methodology and
Low and lower-middle income
ensuring the quality of data from various sources. In the United Kingdom,
the Office for National Statistics was actively involved in the 2019 Voluntary Upper-middle income
National Review from the onset of the process, by supporting a “data-led”
High income
reporting and including a dedicated data chapter within the report.
Despite all efforts, challenges remain in the coordination capacity of NSOs Total
within the National Statistical System. A survey conducted in 2021 on
0 20 40 60 80 100
Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Don't know
The data demand for the 2030 Agenda has unleashed innovation
The unprecedented data demand driven by the 2030 Agenda has acted as a estimation”, is gaining traction in measuring various SDG indicators related
catalyst for data innovation. For example, household surveys, a longstanding to social protection, health, education and employment. Embracing better
data source, are now embracing modern technologies and inclusive data integration and interoperability has also prompted concerted efforts to
approaches, such as using telephone and web data collection methods to build data partnerships and enhance policy coherence across government
make them more efficient and inclusive. Engaging respondents as co- entities.
creators, empowering them to contribute to the data collection process,
With more recognition of the importance of innovation, continued support
has further enhanced the quality and relevance of the obtained information.
is essential. Nearly 90 per cent of NSOs identified the use of administrative
Meanwhile, nontraditional data sources such as administrative records,
data as a high priority for capacity building. Additionally, approximately 50
satellite imagery, and citizen-generated data have emerged as valuable
per cent of NSOs have expressed interest in harnessing the potential of earth
sources in bridging data gaps. Another important aspect of innovation
observation/satellite imagery and web-based data collection methods.
focuses on the integration of multiple data sources.
Tanzania’s Statistical Master Plan for 2022–2026 exemplifies this innovative Capacity-building priorities identified by national statistical offices, July 2021
(percentage)
mindset, prioritizing the strengthening of administrative data sources from
line ministries and embracing data from non-State actors. Colombia has Use of administrative data
harnessed the power of satellite imagery to monitor SDG indicators, such as Use of earth observation/
satellite imagery
all-season road accessibility, which traditional data sources fail to measure
Web-based data collection
properly. Kenya has incorporated citizen-generated data into its national
Introduction of new surveys
Data Quality Assurance Framework, which outlines principles and processes
for ensuring data quality in SDG monitoring. Meanwhile, Ghana has Use of scanner/credit card data
repurposed data from civil society organizations to inform policies on marine Use of mobile phone data
litter, helping shape coastal and marine management policies in the country. Phone-based data collection
Use of citizen-generated data
Timeliness and disaggregation are vital components of data production,
often necessitating the integration of multiple data sources. Bangladesh, with Use of social media
the support of the Data for Now project, has successfully generated poverty
0 20 40 60 80 100
estimates for smaller geographical areas by integrating satellite imagery
High priority Moderate priority Not a priority Don't know
with household survey data. This innovative approach, known as “small area
9 Sounding the alarm
Important partnerships are being established for better and more inclusive data for development
Recognizing the diverse national capacities in data and statistics, countries Proportion of national statistical offices with institutional arrangement with
agree on the importance of adopting a “whole-of-society” approach to meet stakeholders (percentage)
the monitoring needs of the ambitious 2030 Agenda. The SDG indicator
The public sector 81
framework has encouraged NSOs to establish partnerships, both within and
outside the national statistical system, at national and international levels. International organizations 66
Within governments, the alignment of the global SDG indicator framework Academia 56
with national policy priorities has fostered collaborative efforts between
The private sector 45
national statistical offices and line ministries. In Cameroon, Mozambique
and Uganda, regular stakeholder meetings on SDG data are organized Civil society 37
to review and validate national and subnational SDG reports. Brazil
No arrangement 13
has established a National Commission for the SDGs, involving various
stakeholders and the country NSO to develop data action plans for each of 0 20 40 60 80 100
the 17 Goals. The United Kingdom’s 2019 VNR process saw the participation
Programmes such as the SDG16 Survey Initiative have advanced
of over 380 organizations, highlighting a commitment to inclusivity.
methodologies for areas where official statistics were previously lacking,
The public sector has been the main partner of national statistical offices, including discrimination and government transparency. The Collaborative
with 80 per cent of NSOs having institutional arrangements with other on the Use of Administrative Data facilitates the sharing of tools and
government entities. Collaboration with international organizations is experiences to support countries in utilizing administrative data for
also common, with 66 per cent of countries reporting such partnerships. statistical purposes. Members of the Inter-Secretariat Working Group on
Additionally, academia, the private sector, and civil society organizations Household Surveys collaborate to provide coordinated support to countries
have emerged as important partners for NSOs. However, 13 per cent of on survey activities. Furthermore, the recently launched Collaborative on
countries indicated a lack of arrangements with other stakeholders. Moving Citizen Contributions to Data, mandated by the Statistical Commission, aims
forward, it is crucial to make efforts in building partnerships with a wide to strengthen the capacity of NSOs, academia and civil society organizations
range of stakeholders to further strengthen data monitoring efforts for the in leveraging citizen data for the SDGs. Through these international
SDGs. collaborations, innovative approaches and best practices are being shared,
empowering countries to overcome data challenges and enhance their data
At the international level, the SDG monitoring process has also sparked capabilities.
collaboration among diverse stakeholders. The Inter-Agency and
Expert Group on SDG Indicators, responsible for the development and
implementation of the global indicator framework for the SDGs, has been
instrumental in fostering collaboration among stakeholders from different
data communities at local, national, regional, and international levels.
Increased openness, accessibility and effective use of data have helped achieve better data impact
The increased openness, accessibility, and effective use of data have played Data plays a pivotal role in shaping policies and driving meaningful change.
a crucial role in achieving better data impact. Since the adoption of the In Chile, for instance, poverty estimates derived from integrating data from
2030 Agenda, significant progress has been made by countries in opening administrative sources and household surveys have informed the allocation
up official statistics. According to the Open Data Watch, the median score of funds to all municipalities. In Moldova, data collected from the Household
of data openness among 165 countries increased from 38 in 2016 to 57 in Budget Survey played a vital role in enabling the government to provide
2022. However, a mean score of 57 out of 100 clearly highlights the need credit to households affected by the energy crisis. The Gambia’s national
for further efforts to enhance data openness. One key step in adding value SDG 16 survey, which measures citizens’ satisfaction with government
to existing data collection is the dissemination of microdata, which allows services, led to the establishment of a new ministry overseeing public service
researchers to conduct more in-depth analysis, promotes transparency and delivery by the newly elected President. Citizen-generated data, through
accountability, and fosters collaboration. Only less than half of the low- and its citizen-led approach, has also played a significant role in advancing
lower-middle income countries disseminate survey microdata data through progress on Goal 16, contributing to more inclusive societies and sustainable
national repositories. development.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 10
Investing in better data is key to supporting a rescue plan for people and planet
The need for data capacity building has never been so urgent, as countries and philanthropic sectors, to strengthen statistical capacity in low-income
face multiple crises on health, food, energy and climate, and need better data countries and fragile states, close data gaps for vulnerable groups and
to support policymaking. It is also paramount to ensure effective monitoring enhance country resilience in the current context of economic crisis, conflict,
and reporting on the progress towards achieving the SDGs. climate change and increased food insecurity.”
However, NSOs are facing significant funding gap, particularly in low and
Funding gap for national statistical offices’ work programme, by income level,
middle-income countries. Approximately 23 per cent of NSOs in low and July 2021 (percentage)
lower-middle income countries are experiencing severe funding shortages,
with funding gaps exceeding 60 per cent for their statistical programmes. Low and lower-middle income
About 50 per cent of NSOs in this group face moderate funding gaps ranging
Upper-middle income
from 20 to 60 per cent. The situation is relatively better for upper-middle-
income countries, with around 13 per cent facing severe funding shortages High income
and 50 per cent experiencing moderate levels of funding gaps. These funding
challenges pose a significant hurdle to building strong data capacities and Total
hinder effective monitoring and reporting on SDG progress. 0 20 40 60 80 100
More than 60 20 to 60 0 to 20
In response to the funding gap in data, the recently launched Hangzhou
declaration “Accelerating progress in the implementation of the Cape Town
Global Action Plan for Sustainable Development Data”, called for “an urgent
and sustained increase in the level and scale of investments in data and
statistics from domestic and international actors, from the public, private
SDG Progress Unveiled: A Data Journey
A concerning picture of Significant strides in SDG data and monitoring
sdg progress at the midpoint:
Indicators with internationally
data records in sdg global database
agreed methodology
48%
2.7 Million
2.3 Million
15% 37%
100% 1.8 Million
1.4 Million
on track
1.2 Million
61% 1 Million
moderately or severely off track
stagnation or regression 460,000
330,000
Based on an assessment of SDG targets with trend data. 2016 2021 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Mind the gap for better data
national statistical offices satisfied with their coordination role countries with >60% funding gap in their statistical programme
54% 26% 0% 23%
high-income low- and lower-middle income high-income low- and lower-middle income
11 Sounding the alarm
No poverty
• If current trends continue, 575 million people will still be living in extreme
poverty and only one-third of countries will have halved their national
poverty levels by 2030.
• Despite the expansion of social protection during the COVID-19 crisis,
over 4 billion people remain entirely unprotected. Many of the world’s
vulnerable population groups, including the young and the elderly,
remain uncovered by statutory social protection programmes.
Daily life of residents living in the Sujat Nagar slum in Dhaka,
• The share of government spending on essential services, such as Bangladesh.
education, health and social protection, is significantly higher in
advanced economies than in emerging and developing economies.
• A surge in action and investment to enhance economic opportunities, most excluded, is crucial to delivering on the central commitment to end
improve education and extend social protection to all, particularly the poverty and leave no one behind.
Slow and uneven progress on poverty reduction may leave hundreds of millions in extreme poverty
by 2030
Extreme poverty, currently defined as living on less than $2.15 per person per If current trends continue, an estimated 7 per cent of the global population
day at 2017 purchasing power parity, had experienced a significant decline in – approximately 575 million people – will still be living in extreme poverty by
recent decades. However, COVID-19 reversed this positive trend. Even before 2030, with most in sub-Saharan Africa. This projection would represent a
the pandemic, the pace of poverty reduction was slowing, with extreme meager poverty reduction of less than 30 per cent since 2015.
poverty falling from 10.8 per cent in 2015 to 8.4 per cent in 2019. The
average annual reduction rate was 0.54 percentage points between 2015 Proportion of the world’s population living below $2.15/day, 2015–2019 realized
and 2020–2030 forecast and projected (percentage)
and 2019, less than half the 1.28 percentage-point rate observed between
2000 and 2014. In 2020, the number of people living in extreme poverty 12
rose to 724 million, surpassing the pre-pandemic projection by 90 million
10.8
11
and reversing approximately three years of progress on poverty reduction.
10
Recovery from the pandemic has been slow and uneven, with extreme 9.3
poverty dropping from 9.3 per cent in 2020 to 8.8 per cent in 2021. About 9 8.5 8.8 8.4
41 per cent of low-income countries experienced a higher poverty rate 8.1
7.8
8 7.5
in 2021 compared to the previous year, versus only 13 per cent of upper-
middle-income countries. The conflict in Ukraine has disrupted global trade, 7 6.8
leading to increased living costs that are disproportionately impacting the 6.5
poor. Furthermore, climate change poses substantial threats to poverty 6
2015 2019 20202021 2022 2030
reduction. By the end of 2022, nowcasting suggests that 8.4 per cent of the
Realized Pre-COVID projection Nowcast/forecast
world’s population, or as many as 670 million people, could still be living in
extreme poverty.
If current trends continue, only one third of countries will halve national poverty by 2030
The national poverty line is a measure that is specific to a country’s aspects of poverty – such as those related to health, employment, education
economic conditions that can help policymakers design targeted and access to basic services – as well as to reveal the interconnections
interventions and social safety nets. In 2020, 22 out of 39 countries with between deprivations across multiple Goals within households. Despite the
data saw increases in national poverty rates relative to the previous year. implementation of these measures in a few countries, progress on reducing
Given the historical trends of 127 countries with data, only one third of national multidimensional poverty has been limited. To address this,
countries will have halved their national poverty rates by 2030 from 2015. governments and stakeholders must target underlying factors and develop
strategies to alleviate deprivations across multiple dimensions.
Poverty is a complex and multidimensional challenge. Some countries have
also adopted national multidimensional poverty indicators to capture other
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 12
Amid overlapping crises, coverage and expenditures on social protection programmes remain low
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of social protection population. To achieve the Goals, countries will need to implement nationally
systems. However, in 2020, a mere 47 per cent of the global population was appropriate universal and sustainble social protection systems for all.
effectively covered by at least one social protection cash benefit, a slight
increase from 45 per cent in 2015. Only 26.4 per cent of children under the Proportion of children, vulnerable persons and older persons covered by social
age of 15 worldwide received social protection cash benefits, compared protection cash benefits, by income level of country, 2020 (percentage)
with 77.5 per cent of older persons. However, in low-income countries, only
8.5
23.2 per cent of older persons of pensionable age received social protection Low-income countries 7.8
23.2
cash benefits. Similarly, globally, only 28.9 per cent of people considered
20.9
vulnerable – all children, along with adults and older people not covered by Lower-middle-income countries 15.2
38.6
contributory programmes – had access to non-contributory cash benefits.
22.6
Upper-middle-income countries 34.4
Moreover, national expenditures on social protection for children and the 91.3
elderly remain low, with upper-middle-income countries spending just 86.8
High-income countries 62.8
0.5 per cent and 1.4 per cent of GDP, and lower-middle-income countries 97.5
spending 0.1 per cent and 0.8 per cent of GDP, respectively, in 2020. In
26.4
response to the cost-of-living crisis, 105 countries and territories announced World 28.9
77.5
almost 350 social protection measures between February 2022 and
February 2023. However, more than 80 per cent of these measures were 0 20 40 60 80 100
short term in nature and around 47 per cent were general income support Children Vulnerable persons Older persons
for the poor and vulnerable, particularly children, families and the elderly
Advanced, emerging and developing economies alike have all increased their share of government
spending on essential services
The share of government spending on essential services, including the different components of essential services, social protection spending
education, health and social protection, has increased over the past two in advanced economies was on average 17 percentage points higher than
decades. It accounted for approximately 53 per cent of total government in emerging and developing economies, in part reflecting higher pension
expenditures globally in 2021, a rise from 47 per cent in 2015. This figure coverage in the former. The gap was lower when it comes to health spending,
reached 62 per cent in advanced economies and 44 per cent in emerging which was 6 percentage points higher on average in advanced economies
and developing economies. The gap between them has remained relatively compared to emerging and developing economies.
stable, at approximately 20 percentage points over the years. Looking into
Globally, disasters are affecting more people but causing fewer deaths
At the mid-point of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Disaster-related mortality rate (excluding COVID-19 deaths), 2005–2021
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, there has been a progressive (deaths per 100,000 population)
decline in disaster-related mortality. The global average annual number of
5
deaths or missing persons per 100,000 population has steadily decreased
4
worldwide, from 1.64 in the period of 2005–2015 to 0.86 in 2012–2021. In
absolute terms, countries reported an average disaster mortality of 44,616 3
per year during this period. However, least developed countries (LDCs),
2
small island developing States (SIDS) and landlocked developing countries
(LLDCs) face higher vulnerability to disasters, with mortality rates of 1.24, 1
2.80 and 1.85, respectively, from 2012–2021. Despite the decline in global 0
disaster-related mortality, the number of people affected by disasters per 2005 2010 2015 20202021
100,000 population has increased from 1,198 during 2005–2015 to 2,113 Trendline
in the 2012–2021 period (excluding cases related to COVID-19). Between
2015 and 2021, a staggering 151 million people on average were affected by
disasters each year globally.
13 Goal 1 | No poverty
Zero hunger
• The number of people facing hunger and food insecurity has been rising
since 2015, with the pandemic, conflict, climate change and growing
inequalities exacerbating the situation. In 2022, about 9.2 per cent of
the world population was facing chronic hunger, equivalent to about 735
million people – 122 million more than in 2019. An estimated 29.6 per
cent of the global population – 2.4 billion people – were moderately or
severely food insecure, meaning they did not have access to adequate
food. This figure reflects an alarming 391 million more people than in Children in the Santeng community of Tongo District, Ghana, enjoy
2019. porridge made from fonio, an ancient indigenous drought-resistant
crop cultivated by rural women.
• Despite global efforts, in 2022, an estimated 45 million children under
the age of 5 suffered from wasting, 148 million had stunted growth and
37 million were overweight. A fundamental shift in trajectory is needed food systems, invest in sustainable agricultural practices, and reduce and
to achieve the 2030 nutrition targets. mitigate the impact of conflict and the pandemic on global nutrition and
food security.
• To achieve zero hunger by 2030, urgent coordinated action and policy
solutions are imperative to address entrenched inequalities, transform
In the face of a polycrisis, joint global efforts are urgently needed to address hunger and ensure food
security
Two different guide layers for two- and three-line titles.
In 2022, the prevalGenuicdees o fof ru enddgee orfn roiguhrt-iaslhigmneedn tetx rte amnda bianres dar ue nuncihfoarmng (eandd account for Prevalence of undernourishment, 2020–2022 average (percentage)
space for other languages).
compared to 2021, following a significant increase in 2020 due to the
Swatches are of full, 75%, 50% and 25% color.
pandemic and a slower rise in 2021. The global population facing chronic
All bars should be 0p6 wide
hunger stood at 9.2w pithe r0 cspeanctin ign w 2it0hi2n2 c,o uunpt rfyr coamte g7o.r9ie ps er cent in 2019, affecting
and 0p2 spacing between country categories.
around 735 million people, which is a rise of 122 million since 2019.
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart,
Moreover, an estim0apt6e sdp a2c.i4ng b firlolmio nm ainind rievgiidonusa. ls, equivalent to 29.6 per cent
of the world’s popuNlautmiobner, leabxeplse srhieounlcde bde imnsoidde ecoralotre b taors s(ideevaellrye) afnodo 0dp 3in frsoemc uedrgitey. ,
If outside, left-aligned and 0p3 away.
meaning they did not have regular access to adequate food. While Africa
Number line 0p2 below bottom bar. Stroke .25pt.
has a higher proportion of its population facing hunger compared to other
Tick marks 0p3 long. Text 0p1 below tick mark.
regions, Asia is home to the majority of people facing hunger. It is projected
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and
that more than 600te xmt.illion people worldwide will be facing hunger in 2030,
highlighting the immLegeennsde c oclhora blluebnbglee 0 op6f .achieving the zero hunger target.
Legend 0p6 below number line labels. Any note 0p6 below legend.
Global trends in theN optree uvsaesle hnacngei nogf i nhduenntg.er and food security reflect the
interplay of two opposing forces. On one hand, the resumption of economic
0–2.5 2.5–5 5–10 10–25 25–40 40–60 No data
activity has led to increased incomes and improved access to food. On
the other hand, food price inflation has eroded income gains and hindered
access to food. However, these forces have manifested differently across
different regions. Hunger continues to increase in Western Asia, the
Caribbean, and all subregions of Africa. Conversely, most subregions in Asia
and Latin America have experienced improvements in food security.
Aid and public spending on agriculture are falling despite the growing global food crisis
Investment in agriculture is crucial for improving efficiency, productivity and Between 2015 and 2021, the total aid to agriculture in developing countries
income growth, and for addressing poverty and hunger. Despite record-high increased by 14.6 per cent, from $12.8 to $14.2 billion (in constant 2021
nominal public spending on agriculture of $700 billion in 2021 during the prices). In 2020, total aid to agriculture spiked, growing by nearly 18 per cent
pandemic, government expenditures on agriculture relative to the sector’s compared to the previous year, partly due to food security concerns during
contribution to GDP (as measured by the agriculture orientation index – the pandemic. However, in 2021, it fell by 15 per cent, returning to levels
AOI) fell from a value of 0.50 in 2015 to 0.45 in 2021. This decline was similar to those before the pandemic.
observed in all regions except Europe and Northern America, where stimulus
packages of unprecedented scale were implemented by governments. Latin
America and the Caribbean recorded the highest decline in AOI, from 0.33 in
2015 to 0.21 in 2021.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 14
Despite dropping in 2021, the share of countries experiencing high food prices remained above the
2015–2019 average
Globally, the share of countries experiencing moderately to abnormally high Proportion of countries affected by moderately to abnormally high food prices,
2015–2019 average, 2020 and 2021 (percentage)
food prices fell from 48.1 per cent in 2020 to 21.5 per cent in 2021. Despite
this significant drop, the 2021 figure was still higher than the 2015–2019 70
average of 15.2 per cent. Factors such as increased demand, rising input 60
16.7
(energy and fertilizer) and transport costs, supply chain disruptions
50
and trade policy changes contributed to the sustained price increases.
Meanwhile, domestic factors – including adverse weather, currency 21.7 28.9 40
depreciations, political instability and production shortfalls – intensified 16.7 36.8 27.7 30
price pressures. In sub-Saharan Africa and the least developed countries 29.527.3 50 20
25 21.7 25 4.3 20
(LDCs), the proportion of countries experiencing high food prices increased 8.6 25 26.1 6.7 26.7 13.1
f po er r t ch ee n s te , rc eo sn pd e cc to in vese lyc )u . t Tiv he e sy ee a rer gin io 2 n0 s 2 fa1 c( ere da ac dh din itg io 4 n0 a. l9 c hp ae lr l ec ne gn et sa n frd o m34 .1 9.1 9.113.68 5.3 8.38.3 8.3 66 .. 11 17.46 5..7 313.313.3 66 .. 33 13.2 55 .. 33 49. .8 4 6.7 8 6.. 4820.4 8.4 1 00
worsening security conditions, macroeconomic difficulties, and a high level
of dependency on imported food and agricultural inputs.
15 Goal 2 | Zero hunger
egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202 egareva
9102-5102
0202 1202
Malnutrition continues to threaten children and women worldwide, despite some progress
Children affected by malnutrition – including stunting (low height for age), Number of children under age 5 who are affected by stunting, 2012 and 2022
wasting (low weight for height), micronutrient deficiencies, and by being (millions)
overweight – face heightened risks of poor growth and development. Despite Sub-Saharan Africa 55.1
56.8
progress in certain regions, child malnutrition remains a global concern that
Central and Southern Asia 76.4
has been exacerbated by the ongoing food and nutrition crisis – with low- 54.3
and lower-middle-income countries among those most affected. Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 182 .35.0
Northern Africa and Western Asia 11.5
10.2
In 2022, 22.3 per cent of children under age 5 (148 million) were affected by
Latin America and the Caribbean 6.8
stunting, down from 26.3 per cent in 2012. While the number of countries 5.7
with a high prevalence of stunting (30 per cent or more) decreased from Europe and Northern America 22 .. 16
47 to 28 countries from 2012 to 2022, no region is on track to achieve the Oceania* 0 0. .6 7
2030 target of a 50 per cent reduction in the number of stunted children. If Australia and New Zealand 0.1
0.1
current trends persist, approximately 128.5 million children will still suffer
World 177.9
from stunting in 2030. To meet the global target, the annual rate of reduction 148.1
must increase by 2.2 times the current rate. 0 50 100 150 200
Wasting, caused by diseases and nutrient-poor diets, puts children at 2012 2022
95 per cent confidence intervals
immediate risk of thinness, weakened immunity, developmental delays
and death. In 2022, 6.8 per cent (or 45 million) children under age 5
were affected by wasting, down form 7.7 per cent in 2010. At the same Proportion of children under age 5 who are overweight, 2012 and 2022 (percentage)
time, 5.6 per cent (or 37 million) were overweight. The global prevalence
of overweight children has stagnated at around 5.5 per cent since 2012, Australia and New Zealand 12.4 19.3
requiring greater efforts to achieve the 2030 target of 3 per cent. Oceania* 9. 13 3.9
Northern Africa and Western Asia 10.4
Moreover, the prevalence of anaemia in women aged 15–49 continues to be 9.8
alarming, stagnating at around 30 per cent since 2000. Anaemia in women Latin America and the Caribbean 7. 84 .6
is a risk factor for adverse maternal and perinatal outcomes, highlighting the Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 6. 85 .0
importance of addressing this issue for both women and child health and Europe and Northern America 9.0
7.6
nutrition. Sub-Saharan Africa 3.8
3.7
Preventing all forms of malnutrition requires: ensuring adequate maternal Central and Southern Asia 22 .. 99
nutrition; promoting optimal breastfeeding; providing nutritious, diverse
5.5
World
and safe foods in early childhood; and creating a healthy environment, with 5.6
access to basic health, water, hygiene and sanitation services, as well as
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
opportunities for safe physical activity. Coordinated actions across nutrition,
2012 2022
health and social protection sectors – especially in the regions most affected
95 per cent confidence intervals
– are needed to reduce child and maternal malnutrition. * Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
S AaS h fu ra ib cr- a an SC oe u Aan tn sht idr e aa rl n Oceania* N Wo A Aa er ft n sr sh i td ice e a ar rn n E ESa a Aoas sunt ste t e id ahr rn - n CA a aL m n ra id bet bi trn hi ec e aa n N AE o mu a rr tn eo h rdp e ice r a n World
Abnormally high food prices Moderately high food prices
*Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
Good health
and well-being
• There has been some progress on improving global health in recent
years. For example, 146 out of 200 countries or areas have already met
or are on track to meet the SDG target on under-5 mortality. Effective
HIV treatment has cut global AIDS-related deaths by 52 per cent since
2010 and at least one neglected tropical disease has been eliminated in
47 countries.
• However, insufficient progress has been made in other areas, such as on
reducing maternal mortality and expanding universal health coverage. Nine-month-old Sofia receives routine vaccinations and a medical
Globally, approximately 800 women died every day from pregnancy check-up with her mother at a clinic in Bolivia.
or childbirth in 2020. And 381 million people were pushed or further
pushed into extreme poverty in 2019 due to out-of-pocket payments for
health. • To overcome these setbacks and address long-standing health care
shortcomings, increased investment in health systems is needed to
• The COVID-19 pandemic and ongoing crises have impeded progress
support countries in their recovery and build resilience against future
towards Goal 3. Childhood vaccinations have experienced the largest
health threats.
decline in three decades, and tuberculosis and malaria deaths have
increased compared with pre-pandemic levels.
Stagnating progress in reducing maternal mortality means a woman dies of preventable causes every
two minutes
The global maternTawl om doifrfetarelintty g ruaidteio la (yMersM foRr )tw mo-a argndin tahlrleye -dlience ltiintleeds. from 227 Proportion of births attended by skilled health personnel, 2015 and 2022
Guides for edge of right-aligned text and bars are uniform (and account for (percentage)
deaths per 100,00s0pa lcive efo br iortthhesr liann 2gu0a1g5e st)o. 223 in 2020. This figure remains
over three times thSew attacrhgees ta oref o7f 0fu sll,e 7t5 f%or, 5200%3 0an –d 2m5%ea cnoilnogr. that approximately Sub-Saharan Africa 59
70
800 women died eAvlle brayr sd sahyo uflrdo bme 0ppre6 vweindetable causes related to pregnancy
and childbirth, or ow nit eh d0 e s ap ta hci n eg v w erit yh i tn w c oou mnt ir ny uc ta ete sg . o Fr rie os m 2016–2020, the global Oceania 885 5
and 0p2 spacing between country categories.
average annual red Ifu Wct oi ro ldn , Lra Dt Ce , Lw Da Ss o a r p SIp Dr So cx aim tega ot re iely s az re er so p, a s ci eg dn aif pi ac ra t,n tly lower Central and Southern Asia 78 89
than the 2.7 per ce0npt6 r saptaec iancgh frioemve mda bine rtewgieoenns. 2000 and 2015. Northern Africa and Western Asia 90
94
Number labels should be inside color bars (ideally) and 0p3 from edge.
In 2020, about 70I fp oeurt scideen, tle mft-aatliegrnneadl a dneda 0tph3s a owcacy.ured in sub-Saharan Latin America and the Caribbean 95
96
Africa, followed byN Cumenbetrr aliln ae n0dp 2S boeulotwhe brontt Aoms ibaa ar.t S ntreoaker l.y2 51p7t .per cent. Fifteen- Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 95
year-old girls in suTbi-cSk amhaarkras n0 pA3 flroincga. Theaxdt 0thp1e b heilogwh etisctk lmifaertkim. e risk (1 in 40) 96
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and Europe and Northern America 99
– approximately 400 times higher than their peers in Australia and New 99
text.
Zealand. Between 2016 and 2020, LDCs and LLDCs saw significant drops in
Legend color bubble 0p6. World 81
MMR, with an aveLreaggeen da 0npn6u bael lroewd nuucmtiboenr lrianete la obfe l2s.. 8A npye nro ctee 0npt 6a nbedl o3w.0 le pgeenrd c. ent, 86
respectively, whileN iont eS uIDseSs, htahneg ianng ninudaeln rt.eduction rate was only 1.2 per cent. 0 20 40 60 80 100
2015 2022
Global coverage of assisted childbirth by skilled health personnel has risen
from 81 to 86 per cent between 2015 and 2022, but access remains limited
in many countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia,
where mortality rates are highest. However, sub-Saharan Africa experienced
the fastest growth, from 59 to 70 per cent between 2015 and 2022.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 16
Progress on reproductive health continues, with falling adolescent birth rates and rising access to
contraception
More women and girls now have improved access to sexual and reproductive The global adolescent birth rate for girls aged 15–19 was 41.3 births per 1,000
health services. The proportion of women of reproductive age (15–49 years) girls in 2023, down from 47.2 in 2015. The global adolescent birth rate for
having their need for family planning satisfied with modern methods has girls aged 10–14, reported for the first time in the global monitoring of the
increased slightly, from 76.5 to 77.6 per cent between 2015 and 2023, and is Goals, has also declined from 1.8 births per 1,000 girls in 2015 to 1.5 in 2023.
projected to reach 78.2 per cent by 2030. Sub-Saharan Africa has witnessed Latin America and the Caribbean reported the largest reduction, from 67.3
the largest increase, from 51.6 to 57.4 per cent during this period, and is births per 1,000 girls aged 15–19 in 2015 to 51.4 in 2023, and from 3.3 births
expected to rise to 62.1 per cent by 2030. per 1,000 girls aged 10–14 in 2015 to 2.3 in 2023.
Global child mortality rates show significant decline, but challenges remain
A significant reduction in child mortality has been achieved over the past Under-5 and neonatal mortality rate, 2015–2021 (deaths per 1,000 live births)
two decades. Between 2015 and 2021, the global under-5 mortality rate fell 90 87
by 12 per cent, from 43 deaths per 1,000 live births to 38. Additionally, the
80
global neonatal mortality rate fell by about 10 per cent, from 20 deaths per 74
70
1,000 live births to 18. Despite this progress, 5 million children still lost their
lives before their fifth birthday in 2021, down from 6.1 million in 2015. Nearly 60
half of those deaths (2.3 million) occured in the first 28 days of life. While 50 46 47
43
child mortality has declined in all regions, sub-Saharan Africa continues to 40 39 35 38
face the highest rates. In 2021, 1 child in 14 died before reaching age 5 (74
d rae ta et h acs hp ie evr e1, d0 t0 w0 o l i dv ee c b ai drt eh ss a) gin o t inh i 2s 0re 0g 1i .o n, the same as the global average 23 00 30 27 21 1928 22 2 159 2 136 18 16 17 15 20 18
By 2021, 133 countries had already met the SDG target on under-5 mortality, 10 10 9 8 7 6 5 4.1 3.9
0 3.4 2.82.5 2.4
and an additional 13 are expected to do so by 2030, if current trends
continue. But to achieve the target by 2030, progress needs to accelerate
in 54 countries, nearly 75 per cent of which are in sub-Saharan Africa. If
these countries were to achieve the under-5 target, nearly 10 million under-5
deaths could be averted between 2022 and 2030. Meanwhile, more than 60
countries need to accelerate progress to meet the neonatal target.
17 Goal 3 | Good health and well-being
5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202 5102 1202
Sub- Oceania* Central Northern Latin Eastern Europe Australia World
Saharan and Africa America and and and
Africa Southern and and the South- Northern New
Asia Western Caribbean Eastern America Zealand
Asia Asia
Under-5 mortality rate Neonatal mortality rate
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
The alarming decline in childhood vaccination is leaving millions of children at risk from devastating but
preventable diseases
The share of children who received three doses of the vaccine against Measles-containing vaccination (MCV) coverage, 2015–2021 (percentage) and
diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTP3) – a marker for immunization estimated number of children missing doses of MCV, 2015–2021 (millions)
coverage within and across countries – fell 5 percentage points between 60 100
2019 and 2021, to just 81 per cent. This marked the largest sustained 85 85 85 86 86 83 81
decline in childhood vaccinations in approximately 30 years. As a result, 25 80
70 71 72 71
million children missed out on one or more doses of DTP through routine 67 68
40 63
immunization services in 2021 alone. This is 2 million more than those 60
who missed out in 2020 and 6 million more than in 2019, highlighting
15
the growing number of children at risk from devastating but preventable 20 30 24 23 22 21 17 40
diseases. In 2021, only 70 per cent of children received two doses of the
vaccine for measles, a highly contagious disease. This was far below the 21 21 20 19 19 22 25 20
95 per cent population coverage required to prevent outbreaks. Coverage
of the first dose of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, which has grave 0 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
consequences for women and girls’ health worldwide, reached only 15 per
Zero doses of MCV (left axis) Missing dose 2 of MCV (left axis)
cent in 2021, despite the first vaccines being licensed over 15 years ago.
MCV2 coverage (right axis) MCV1 coverage (right axis)
Intersecting crises have left the world off-kilter to achieve SDG targets on HIV, malaria and tuberculosis
HIV/AIDS: There were an estimated 1.5 million new human HIV incidence rates, 2010 and 2021 (new cases per 1,000 uninfected adults
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections globally in 2021, almost one third aged 15–49 years)
fewer than in 2010. Effective HIV treatment has also cut global AIDS- Sub-Saharan Africa 3.17
1.32
related deaths by 52 per cent, from 1.4 million in 2010 to 650,000 in 2021. Oceania* 0.50
0.61
Sub-Saharan Africa, the region with the largest HIV burden, has achieved
Europe and Northern America 0.28
a 44 per cent decline in annual new HIV infections since 2010. However, 0.35
the decline has been much sharper among males than among females. Latin America and the Caribbean 00 .3.3 25
Fewer children were accessing treatment than adults. The aforementioned Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 0.14
0.12
inequalities and others faced by key populations at increased risk of HIV are 0.13
Central and Southern Asia
0.09
slowing progress towards ending AIDS. Moreover, new infections are rising
Northern Africa and Western Asia 0.05
in some regions, and the world is off track to meet the targets of fewer than 0.07
Australia and New Zealand 0.09
370,000 new HIV infections by 2025. 0.04
World 0.49
Tuberculosis (TB): The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted access 0.31
to tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment in many countries, resulting in an 0 1 2 3 4
increase in the TB disease burden globally. In 2021, an estimated 10.6 million 2010 2021
people fell ill with TB, an increase from 10.1 million in 2020. The TB incidence
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
rate also rose by 3.6 per cent between 2020 and 2021, reversing the decline
of 2 per cent per year observed for most of the previous two decades. There
Incidence rate of tuberculosis, 2015–2021 (new cases per 100,000 population)
were an estimated 1.6 million deaths from TB in 2021, an increase of 14.1 per
150
cent from 2020. This is the first time in nearly two decades that the number
150
of TB deaths has increased. Between 2015 and 2021, the net reductions in
145
TB incidence and death were 10 per cent and 5.9 per cent, respectively, only 140
141
one-fifth and one-tenth of the way to the 2025 milestone of WHO’s End TB 137
Strategy. 130 134 134
129
Malaria: In 2021, the global malaria death toll was estimated at 619,000,
compared with 625,000 in 2020 and 568,000 in 2019. The total number of 120
malaria cases worldwide reached 247 million in 2021, surpassing the figures
of 245 million in 2020 and 232 million in 2019. Despite COVID-related 110
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
disruptions, malaria-affected countries around the world largely maintained
prevention, diagnosis and treatment measures at levels comparable to pre-
pandemic times. In 2021, 128 million insecticide-treated nets reached their
target destination, along with 223 million malaria rapid diagnostic tests and Two scenarios of global progress in the malaria incidence rate: current trajectory
242 million courses of artemisinin-based combination therapy. However, maintained and WHO Global Technical Strategy targets achieved, 2015–2030
(new cases per 100,000 population)
too many people at high risk of malaria are still missing out on the services
they need to prevent, detect and treat the disease, and progress towards the 70
ending malaria target by 2030 remains off course. In addition to pandemic- 60.1 59.4 59.2
60 56.3
related disruptions, converging humanitarian crises, funding constraints, 52.9
50
weak surveillance systems and declines in the effectiveness of core malaria-
fighting tools threaten to undermine the global malaria response, particularly 40 36.1
in Africa. 31.0
30
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs): In 2021, 1.65 billion people were 20
15
reported to require mass or individual treatment and care for neglected
10 6
tropical diseases, down from 2.19 billion in 2010, representing a reduction
of 25 per cent. As of December 2022, 47 countries, territories and 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
areas have eliminated at least one NTD. In the LDCs, 46 per cent of the
Current estimates of global case incidence Global Technical Strategy milestones
population required treatment and care for NTDs in 2021, down from 79
(2015 baseline)
per cent in 2010.
Forecasted trend if current trajectory
is maintained
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 18
In the wake of the pandemic, progress towards universal health coverage has slowed while financial
hardship has risen
Universal health coverage (UHC) aims to ensure that everyone can access population (around 381 million people) were pushed or further pushed into
quality health services without facing financial hardship. While efforts extreme poverty due to out-of-pocket payments for health in 2019.
to combat infectious diseases like HIV, TB and malaria led to significant
Available evidence suggests a pandemic-related deterioration in UHC, with
expansions in service coverage between 2000 and 2015, progress has since
subregional and country-level decreases in the Service Coverage Index and
slowed. The UHC Service Coverage Index only increased by three points
disruptions in the delivery of essential health services. COVID-19 has also
since 2015, reaching a score of 68 in 2021. Meanwhile, components of UHC
led to higher rates of foregone care and increased financial hardship due to
related to non-communicable diseases, health service capacity and access
high and impoverishing out-of-pocket spending. Accelerating the expansion
have seen minimal or no progress.
of essential health services, particularly in areas with minimal progress, is
Financial hardship remains a significant challenge. The proportion of the crucial for advancing UHC. Proactive policies are needed to reduce financial
population spending over 10 per cent of their household budget on health, hardship, increase public health funding, extend coverage for medicines and
out of pocket, worsened from 12.6 per cent in 2015 to 13.5 per cent in 2019, remove co-payments for the poor.
affecting around 1 billion people. Additionally, 4.9 per cent of the global
Despite increases in the global health workforce, numbers remain low in regions with the highest
burden of disease
A 2020 study shows that the projected global shortage of health workers Density of select health professionals, 2014–2021 (per 10,000 population)
by 2030 has been reduced from 18 million to 10 million. Despite a
Sub-Saharan Africa 12.6
significant increase in the overall size of the global health workforce, regions 2.3
Southern Asia 15.2
with the highest disease burden continue to have the lowest proportion of 8.1
health workers to deliver health services. Between 2014 and 2021, sub- South-Eastern Asia 8.1 34.3
Saharan Africa continues to have the lowest health worker density, with Northern Africa 18.0
8.9
only 2.3 medical doctors and 12.6 nursing and midwifery personnel per Western Asia 35.7
19.4
10,000 population. In contrast, Europe had the highest density for doctors,
Eastern Asia 39.6
at 39.4 per 10,000 population, while Northern America had the most 22.8
Latin America and the Caribbean 41.7
nursing and midwifery personnel, with 152.1 per 10,000 population. Even 23.7
when national densities seem adequate, disparities persist between rural, Northern America 25.9 152.1
remote, subnational and hard-to-reach areas compared with capital cities Central Asia 83.6
27.4
and urban centres. Oceania 95.3
29.7
Europe 89.5
39.4
World 39.4
16.3
0 40 80 120 160
Nursing and midwifery personnel Medical doctors
Driven by COVID-19, official development assistance for basic health has doubled since 2015
Official development assistant (ODA) for basic health from all donors has 2021, COVID-19 control represented the largest share of ODA for basic
doubled in real terms since 2015, from $10.2 billion (constant 2021 prices) health, totaling $9.6 billion, of which $6.3 billion was for vaccine donations.
to $20.4 billion in 2021. Approximately $2.7 billion was spent on basic Preliminary data for 2022 indicate that within total ODA, $11.2 billion
health care, $2.4 billion on malaria control, and $2.0 billion on infectious was spent on COVID-19-related activities,21down 45 per cent from 2021.
disease control. Germany, the United States, the Global Fund and Gavi, Vaccine donations amounted to $1.53 billion, a fall of 74 per cent in real
the Vaccine Alliance, accounted for almost 40 per cent of this total. In terms compared to 2021.
2 The figures in 2022 on COVID-19-related activities are preliminary and partial, as several donors are still in the process of collecting detailed information, especially
sector-related data.
19 Goal 3 | Good health and well-being
Quality education
• Progress towards quality education was already slower than required
before the pandemic, but COVID-19 has had devastating impacts on
education, causing learning losses in four out of five of the 104 countries
studied.
• Without additional measures, only one in six countries will achieve the
universal secondary school completion target by 2030, an estimated
84 million children and young people will still be out of school, and Maria, 9, learns from pre-recorded lessons on her father’s phone at
approximately 300 million students will lack the basic numeracy and the Kili internally displaced persons camp in Syria. A distance-learning
literacy skills necessary for success in life. platform was designed to ensure education for displaced and refugee
children.
• To achieve national Goal 4 benchmarks, which are reduced in ambition
compared with the original Goal 4 targets, 79 low- and lower-middle- • To deliver on Goal 4, education financing must become a national
income countries still face an average annual financing gap of $97 billion. investment priority. Furthermore, measures such as making education
free and compulsory, increasing the number of teachers, improving basic
school infrastructure and embracing digital transformation are essential.
Primary and secondary school completion is rising, but the pace is far too slow and uneven
Between 2015 and 2021, worldwide primary school completion increased School completion rate, by level of education, 2015 and 2021 (percentage)
from 85 to 87 per cent, lower secondary completion rose from 74 to 77 per
Sub-Saharan Africa
cent and upper secondary completion grew from 53 to 58 per cent. However,
the pace of improvement was significantly slower than the 2000–2015 Oceania
period. Most regions have primary completion rates of nearly 90 per cent or
Central and Southern Asia
higher, except sub-Saharan Africa, where fewer than two-thirds of children
Northern Africa and Western Asia
complete primary school. In impoverished regions, poor learning outcomes
lead to high drop-out rates and delayed completion. In sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean
although 80 per cent of primary-aged children are enrolled in school, only 62
Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
per cent graduate on time. Economic burdens, like expenses for books and
uniforms, plus opportunity costs, also contribute to incomplete education. Australia and New Zealand
Europe and Northern America
Since 2019, UNESCO Member States have participated in a national
Goal 4 benchmarking process to set national education targets. Despite
World
the aspiration of universal secondary school completion, only one in six
20 40 60 80 100
countries aims to achieve this goal by 2030 based on their national targets.
Even if these targets are met, an estimated 84 million children and young Primary (2015) Primary (2021)
people will still be out of school by 2030. Lower Secondary (2015) Lower Secondary (2021)
Upper Secondary (2015) Upper Secondary (2021)
Patchy data show disappointing progress on improving primary school reading levels
In 2015, approximately 60 per cent of students demonstrated minimum The pandemic has had devastating impacts on learning. Learning losses due
proficiency in reading across primary and lower secondary schools. to COVID-related school closures were documented in four in five of the 104
However, achieving universal minimum learning proficiency by 2030 countries studied. A recent Progress in International Reading Literacy Study
requires an average annual improvement of around 2.7 percentage points. assessment revealed declines in 21 out of 32 countries with comparable
Despite positive gains between 2000 and 2019, progress was minimal and data from 2016–2021, and parents reported also that two thirds of students
significantly slower than required. Examining reading levels at the end of experienced learning setbacks due to prolonged periods at home. Another
primary school, trend data covering 34 per cent of the world’s children reveal study in seven high-income countries found COVID-19-related learning
an annual improvement of 0.39 percentage points, less than one seventh of losses equivalent to 30 per cent of a school year for mathematics and 35 per
what’s needed. However, comprehensive trend data to fully assess progress cent for reading if schools were closed for eight weeks. According to national
are lacking. Enhancing national and cross-national assessments is crucial for education targets, the percentage of students attaining basic reading skills
effective monitoring. by the end of primary school is projected to rise from 51 per cent in 2015 to
67 per cent by 2030. However, an estimated 300 million children and young
people will still lack basic numeracy and literacy skills by 2030.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 20
Access to early childhood education has expanded, but progress has slowed since 2015
Early schooling stimulates children’s readiness for school and improves their Participation rate in organized learning (one year before the official primary
future learning experience. In 2020, three out of four children globally were entry age), 2020 (percentage)
enrolled in organized learning one year before the official primary entry Sub-Saharan Africa 48.0
age, with progress stagnating since 2015. The pandemic caused temporary
Northern Africa and Western Asia 51.6
dips in pre-primary education participation, with 30 out of 52 countries
Oceania 79.2
with data for 2021 or after witnessing declines. Only half of children were
Australia and New Zealand 83.2
enrolled in organized learning one year before the official primary entry age
Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 84.1
in sub-Saharan Africa and in Northern Africa and Western Asia in 2020.
The average attendance rate of early childhood education for children Central and Southern Asia 85.4
aged 36–59 months in 61 low- and middle-income countries was 37 per Latin America and the Caribbean 93.6
cent, with a 16-percentage-point gap between urban and rural areas and Europe and Northern America 94.2
a 34-percentage-point gap between the richest and poorest quintiles. As
World 74.6
of 2020, only half of the 187 countries and areas with data provided free
pre-primary education, and almost three quarters of the 215 countries and 0 20 40 60 80 100
areas with data did not make pre-primary education compulsory. Failure
Note: “Eastern and South-Eastern Asia” data are from 2019.
to eliminate school fees risks entrenching inequality. About 40 per cent of
countries have not achieved gender parity.
Low digital skills hamper progress towards universal and meaningful connectivity
Low levels of information and communications technology (ICT) skills are Proportion of youth and adults with ICT skills, by type of skill, 2019–2021
a major barrier to achieving universal and meaningful connectivity. Data
100
on digital skills are limited, only available in 78 countries and rarely for all 97.7
90
five categories of skills (communication/collaboration; problem-solving;
83.0
safety; content creation; and information/data literacy). While 86 per cent 80 79.9 80.3
72.7
of individuals use the Internet in countries providing data, many lack the 70
65.3 64.7
required digital skills to be able to fully benefit from it or avoid its dangers. 60
Communication/collaboration skills are the most prevalent, followed by
50 50.1 50.2 49.7
problem-solving, safety and content creation. Information/data literacy 44.6
40 37.9
varies widely between countries. Among 74 countries that provided data on 34.1
30 30.7 30.4 28.5
at least three skills areas, only five reported averages of over 75 per cent in
multiple areas. 20 16.6 18.1 16.9
10 9.5
0 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.9 0.3
Communication/ Problem solving Safety Content creation Information/
Collaboration Data literacy
Note: The bars indicate the 25th, median and 75th percentile of all country values.
The bottom and top lines indicate the minimum and maximum values (excluding outliers).
Basic school infrastructure varies widely across regions and is far from universal
Access to basic school facilities is essential for safe and conducive learning essential for marginalized students’ participation, has also improved by
environments, but one in four primary schools globally lacks basic services almost 5 percentage points.
like electricity, water, sanitation and handwashing facilities. Access to
Adequate infrastructure is also important for mitigating COVID-19
computers, the Internet and disability-adapted facilities is even lower, with
transmission and ensuring safe education. In early 2021, fewer than 10
fewer than one in two primary schools having access, on average. Access is
per cent of low-income countries reported having sufficient soap, clean
higher in lower and upper secondary schools. Regions with the lowest access
water, masks, and sanitation and hygiene facilities to assure the safety of
to basic facilities include Central and Southern Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, and
all learners and staff, compared with 96 per cent in high-income countries.
Latin America and the Caribbean. However, some progress has been made,
Investment and monitoring of infrastructure should be a policy priority to
with primary school electricity access increasing by over 10 percentage
prevent the further entrenchment of inequalities.
points since 2012. Access to computers and disability-adapted facilities,
Many teachers still lack the required qualifications to teach
Ensuring that all teachers possess the minimum qualifications required percentages of trained teachers in pre-primary (60 per cent), primary (69
for their profession is crucial for achieving quality education. However, in per cent) and secondary education (61 per cent) among all regions. The
2020, more than 14 per cent of teachers were still not qualified according to COVID-19 pandemic severely disrupted education, affecting the teaching
national norms, with considerable disparities between countries and across workforce in most countries. To maintain access, teachers had to adapt to
regions. Sub-Saharan Africa faces the biggest challenge, with the lowest new pedagogical concepts and methods, for which many were unprepared.
21 Goal 4 | Quality education
Gender equality
• With only seven years remaining, a mere 15.4 per cent of Goal 5
indicators with data are “on track”, 61.5 per cent are at a moderate
distance and 23.1 per cent are far or very far off track from 2030 targets.
• In many areas, progress has been too slow. At the current rate, it will
take an estimated 300 years to end child marriage, 286 years to close
gaps in legal protection and remove discriminatory laws, 140 years for
women to be represented equally in positions of power and leadership in
Women from different social organizations participate in a march
the workplace, and 47 years to achieve equal representation in national
against gender violence in Quito, Ecuador.
parliaments.
• Political leadership, investments and comprehensive policy reforms
are needed to dismantle systemic barriers to achieving Goal 5. Gender
equality is a cross-cutting objective and must be a key focus of national
policies, budgets and institutions.
Progress has been sluggish on upping women’s share in management and political representation
As of 1 January 2023, the global share of women in lower and single Western Asia, and Central and Southern Asia, have the lowest shares of
chambers of national parliaments reached 26.5 per cent – a slight women in management positions, at around 15 per cent, linked to low female
improvement of 4.2 percentage points since 2015, but an average annual employment rates in those regions.
increase of just 0.5 points. At the local level, women held 35.5 per cent
of seats in local governments in 2023, up from 33.9 per cent in 2020. If Proportion of seats held by women in national parliaments and local
current trends continue, it will take more than four decades to close the governments (percentage)
gender gap in national parliamentary representation and three decades
Oceania*
to do so at the local level. Legislated gender quotas have proven effective,
Northern Africa and Western Asia
with countries applying quotas seeing an average of 30.9 per cent women’s
Central and Southern Asia
representation in the 2022 parliamentary elections, compared with 21.2 per
Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
cent in countries without quotas. Quotas also contribute to higher women’s
Sub-Saharan Africa
representation in local government, by seven percentage points on average.
Europe and Northern America
Latin America and the Caribbean
Globally, women accounted for nearly 40 per cent of total employment
Australia and New Zealand
but held only 28.2 per cent of management positions in 2021. Progress on
increasing women’s representation in management has been slow, with only World
a 1.0-percentage-point increase since 2015. At the current rate, it would
0 10 20 30 40 50
take more than 140 years to achieve gender parity in managerial positions.
Parliament (2015) Local government (2020)
Women’s representation in management remains below their share in total
employment across all regions, with sub-Saharan Africa making the most Parliament (2023) Local government (2023)
progress, reaching 38.2 per cent in 2021. Conversely, Northern Africa and *Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
Nearly half of married women lack decision-making power over their sexual and reproductive health
and rights
Only 56 per cent of women aged 15 to 49 who are married or in a union Around 76 per cent of the 115 countries analysed have supportive laws and
are able to make decisions about their sexual and reproductive health and regulations guaranteeing full and equal access to sexual and reproductive
rights, according to data collected from 68 countries for the 2007–2022 health and rights. Barriers to accessing sexual and reproductive health care,
period. Disparities exist among regions, ranging from 37 per cent in sub- information and education persist due to the lack of positive laws or the
Saharan Africa to over 80 per cent in some countries in Europe and Latin presence of negative ones, particularly in relation to abortion, the human
America and the Caribbean. While 89 per cent of women can decide to use papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine and sex education. Key components for ensuring
contraception, one in four lack the autonomy to make health care decisions sexual and reproductive health and rights laws include budget allocations,
or to refuse sex. technical guidance, health worker training and public awareness-raising.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 22
Insufficient progress has been made in reducing Discriminatory laws and gaps in legal protection
intimate partner violence over the past two persist in critical aspects, denying women their
decades human rights worldwide
Despite growing global awareness and evidence on effective prevention Data collected in 2022 from 119 countries reveal ongoing challenges for
strategies, progress on reducing violence against women and girls over the women in accessing their full human rights due to discriminatory laws and
past two decades has been inadequate. Globally, in 2000, 35 per cent of gaps in legal protection. An astonishing 55 per cent of countries lack laws
ever-partnered women aged 15–49 had been subjected to physical and/ that explicitly prohibit direct and indirect discrimination against women;
or sexual violence by a male partner or ex-partner in their lifetimes and 60 per cent lack laws that define rape based on the principle of consent.
16 per cent were subjected to this form of violence within the past 12 Another 45 per cent do not mandate equal remuneration for work of equal
months. By 2018, these figures had dropped to 31 per cent of women for value, while more than a third of countries fail to provide maternity leave in
lifetime prevalence and 13 per cent for past-year prevalence. However, accordance with International Labour Organization (ILO) standards. In terms
existing evidence suggests that violence against women was exacerbated of marriage and family, nearly a quarter of countries do not grant equal
by the pandemic. Without dedicated investment in scaling up prevention rights in marriage and divorce and close to three-quarters fail to establish
programmes, implementing effective policies and providing support services 18 years as the minimum age of marriage for both women and men, without
to address violence, countries will not achieve the target of eliminating exceptions. Closing gaps in legal protections and removing discriminatory
violence against women and girls by 2030. laws could take up to 286 years based on the current rate of change.
Recent gains are under threat in efforts to end child marriage
Today one in five young women (19 per cent) were married before their Projected number of girls under age 18 married per year, 2023–2030 projections
18th birthday, compared with one in four (25 per cent) 25 years ago. (millions)
Notable progress has been made in countries like Bangladesh, Ethiopia, 12
India, Maldives and Rwanda. However, there has been little progress in
areas of sub-Saharan Africa where child marriage is highest, and levels have
10
remained stagnant in Latin America and the Caribbean. Furthermore, girls
from the richest households are still much more likely to see progress than
8
girls from the poorest households.
At the current pace, the world is at least 300 years away from ending child 6
marriage and more than 9 million girls will still be married in the year 2030.
Additional challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, conflicts and the 4
impacts of climate change threaten to further hamper progress. Pandemic
impacts alone are expected to result in an additional 10 million girls 2
becoming child brides by 2030.
0
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
Sub-Saharan Africa Southern Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
Northern Africa and Western Asia Other regions
Additional impact due to COVID-19 (estimated)
Note: “Other regions” include Europe and Northern America, Central Asia and Oceania.
Agricultural land ownership and legal protection of women’s land rights remain low
Available data from 46 countries for 2009–2020 show that many women of laws and policies promoting women’s land rights exist in all regions,
and men involved in agricultural production lack ownership and/or secure particularly in marital property and inheritance. Moreover, 51 per cent of the
tenure rights over agricultural land. In one third of these countries, less 41 countries with laws recognizing customary law or customary land tenure
than 50 per cent of women and men have land ownership or secure explicitly protect women’s land rights. Many also provide mandatory quotas
rights. Meanwhile, in almost half of these countries, the share of men to ensure women’s representation in land management and administration
with ownership is at least twice that of women. When it comes to legal institutions. Nonetheless, there is a need for stronger protection, policies and
frameworks, close to 60 per cent of the 71 reporting countries have no or enforcement of laws to safeguard women’s land rights.
low levels of protection for women’s land rights. However, positive examples
Mobile phone ownership can be a powerful tool for empowering women, but gender parity remains
elusive in many regions
Owning a mobile phone has been shown to be an important tool to empower that has remained relatively unchanged since 2019. Significant disparities
women by connecting them to other people and enabling them to access exist across regions, with gender parity largely reached or almost reached
information and services. Globally, 73 per cent of the population aged 10 and in high- and middle-income regions, but far from achieved in lower-income
over owned a mobile phone in 2022, up from 67 per cent in 2019. However, regions. The gender gaps are twice as high (reaching around 25 per cent) in
women were 12 per cent less likely to own mobile phones than men, a gap Central and Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
23 Goal 5 | Gender equality
Clean water and
sanitation
• Despite great progress, billions of people still lack access to safe drinking
water, sanitation and hygiene. Achieving universal coverage by 2030 will
require a substantial increase in current global rates of progress: sixfold
for drinking water, fivefold for sanitation and threefold for hygiene.
• Water use efficiency has risen by 9 per cent, but water stress and
water scarcity remain a concern in many parts of the world. In 2020,
2.4 billion people lived in water-stressed countries. The challenges are
compounded by conflicts and climate change. Fatuma pours water, obtained from a recently installed solar-powered
borehole, for her family’s baby goats in drought-stricken Somalia.
• Key strategies to get Goal 6 back on track include increasing sector-wide
investment and capacity-building, promoting innovation and evidence-
based action, enhancing cross-sectoral coordination and cooperation
among all stakeholders, and adopting a more integrated and holistic
approach to water management.
Access to drinking water, sanitation and hygiene improved significantly in rural areas, but stagnated or
decreased in urban areas
Two different guide layers for two- and three-line titles.
Between 2015 andG u2id0e2s 2fo, rt ehdeg ep orof rpigohrtt-aiolingn oedf ttehxet awnod rbladr’ss apreo upnuifloartmio (na nwd iatchc ount for Global urban and rural population without safely managed drinking water, safely
access to safely msp aa nc ae g fo er d o t dh re ir n l kan ing gua wge as t) e. r services increased from 69 to 73 managed sanitation, and basic hygiene services, 2015/17–2022 (billions)
Swatches are of full, 75%, 50% and 25% color.
per cent; safely managed sanitation services increased from 49 to 57 per
All bars should be 0p6 wide Drinking water Sanitation Hygiene
cent; and basic hywgitieh n0e s psaecrinvgic weisth iinn ccroeuanstreyd c aftreogmor ie6s7 to 75 per cent. This 4
3.8
progress signifiesa annd 0apd2d siptiaocninagl b 6e8tw7e emn iclloiuonnt,r y9 c1a1t emgoilrliieosn. and 637 million
3.5
people gaining acIcf eWsosr ltdo, LtDhCes, LeD eSs osre SnIDtiSa cl asteegrvoricieess a,r ere ssppaceecdt aivpealryt,. Open
0p6 spacing from main regions. 3
defecation decreased from 715 million to 419 million during this period.
Number labels should be inside color bars (ideally) and 0p3 from edge. 2.2 1.9
However, in 2022I,f o2u.2ts ibdiel,l iloefnt- apliegonpedle a nsdti 0llp l3a acwkeayd. safely managed drinking 2.3
2.2
water, including 7N0u3m mbeirl lliionen 0 wp2it bheolouwt abo bttaosmic b awr.a Stterork see .2rv5picte.; 3.5 billion 2 2.0 2.0
people lacked safTeilcyk mmaarnkas g0ep3d lsoangn. iTtaexttio 0np,1 ibnecloluwd tiicnkg m 1a.5rk .billion without 1.5 1.3
basic sanitation sLeergveincde sca; taengodr i2es b riigllhiot-nal ilgancekde, d1p 0a abpaasrtic, 0 hpa3n bdetwwaesenh icnoglo rf abcuiblbitlye and 1.3 1.2
with soap and wat te ex rt . at home, including 653 million with no handwashing 1 1.6 1.6
Legend color bubble 0p6.
facility at all. Sub- LS ea geh na dr a 0n p6 A bf er li oc wa ni us m fu br et r h lie nes t la b be elh s.i n Ad ny. D nou ter i 0n pg 6 t bh ei ls o wp e ler gio end d, . 0.8 0.9 0.7 0.8
while the rural poNpoutlea utisoens hsaanwgin igm inpdreonvte.ments in access, the urban 0
2015 2022 2015 2022 2017 2022
population’s access remained largely unchanged or decreased. To achieve
universal coverage by 2030, the current rates of progress would need to Rural Urban Rural Urban Rural Urban
increase by three to six times.
Water quality is improving in countries with robust monitoring, but there are still many unknowns
Progress towards the target of halving the proportion of untreated Proportion of bodies of water with good ambient water quality, 2017–2020 (percentage)
wastewater by 2030 is limited. Based on data from 140 countries and
territories, about 58 per cent of household wastewater was safely treated
in 2022. However, wastewater statistics are lacking in many countries and
reporting is low, especially from industrial sources.
Data from 2017–2020 indicate that 60 per cent of assessed water bodies
in 97 countries had good ambient water quality. Countries with robust
monitoring systems showed positive trends: 44 per cent of countries
reporting in both 2017 and 2020 were on track to improve water quality.
However, a lack of data poses a risk to more than 3 billion people living in
areas where the quality of freshwater is unknown. Agriculture and untreated
wastewater are major threats to water quality, with nitrogen and phosphorus
measurements frequently failing to meet targets. Efforts are needed to
improve farming practices and wastewater treatment, especially in regions
with high population growth.
0–20 21–40 41–60 61–80 81–100 Data not available
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 24
Water-use efficiency has improved, particularly in agriculture, but rising water stress in several areas is
cause for concern
Although global water stress levels (the ratio of freshwater withdrawn Water-use efficiency, 2015 and 2020 (USD/m3)
to total renewable freshwater resources) remained at a safe level of 18.2 Central and Southern Asia 2.5
2.9
per cent in 2020, this masks substantial regional variations. Central and
Northern Africa and Western Asia 11.7
Southern Asia experience high water stress levels, exceeding 75 per cent, 11.2
and Northern Africa faces critical water stress, surpassing 100 per cent. The Latin America and the Caribbean 13.4
11.8
region of Northern Africa and Western Asia has seen a concerning 18 per
Sub-Saharan Africa 12.7
cent increase in water stress between 2015 and 2020. An estimated 2.4 12.8
billion people lived in water-stressed countries in 2020, of which almost 800 Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 15.7
19.9
million lived in high and critically high water-stressed countries.
Europe and Northern America 47.5
49.5
Improving water-use efficiency is one key to reducing water stress.
Water-use efficiency worldwide rose 9 per cent, from $17.4/m3 in 2015 to Oceania^ 58.7 76.8
$18.9/m3 in 2020. It ranges from below $3/m3 in economies that depend
World 17.4
on agriculture to over $50/m3 in highly industrialized or service-based 18.9
economies. The agriculture sector experienced the greatest increase in 0 20 40 60 80
water-use efficiency (20 per cent) from 2015, compared with the industrial
2015 2020
and service sectors (13 and 0.3 per cent, respectively). Improving water- Note: Oceania^ includes only data from Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.
use efficiency will require more efficient irrigation, better agricultural
management, tackling leakages in distribution networks and optimizing
industrial and energy cooling processes.
Enhancing water management and transboundary cooperation is critical for bolstering resilience to
crises
A lack of both cross-sector coordination over water and operational Integrated water-resources-management implementation progress, 2017–2020
arrangements for transboundary water cooperation threatens the
achievement of targets on climate, food, energy, health, life on land and
below water, and peace. Although there has been global progress on
integrated water resources management between 2017 and 2020, with the
overall score increasing from 49 to 54 out of 100, it falls far short of meeting
target 6.5 of implementing integrated water resources management at all
levels by 2030. Encouragingly, 44 countries have nearly achieved the target
and 22 countries have proved that real and rapid progress is possible, but
urgent acceleration is needed in 107 countries. Out of 153 countries sharing 44 55
transboundary rivers, lakes and aquifers, only 32 have 90 per cent or more of
their transboundary waters covered by operational arrangements, suggesting
that significant efforts are needed to ensure that all shared rivers, lakes and
aquifers are covered by 2030. The world must accelerate all aspects of water
management, together with transboundary cooperation, to increase its
resilience to crises – including climate, health and poverty. Limited (55) Moderate (52) Substantial (22)
Close to target (44) No trend
Note: Number of countries progress per level in parentheses.
Decline in official development assistance to As wetland ecosystems and species disappear,
water sector raises concerns large-scale protection and restoration are
imperative
Official development assistance (ODA) disbursements to the water sector
decreased by 15 per cent between 2015 and 2021, from $9.6 billion to $8.1 Water-related ecosystems provide clean water, regulate floods and droughts
billion. Total ODA commitments to the water sector have also fallen 12 per and support biodiversity. But these ecosystems face numerous threats,
cent, from $11.2 billion in 2015 to $9.8 billion in 2021. Commitments peaked including pollution, climate change and overexploitation. The extent of
at $13.5 billion in 2017 and have decreased every year since. Sub-Saharan surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers and reservoirs, are rapidly
Africa received the largest share – 28 per cent or more of water-sector ODA changing worldwide, with one in five river basins experiencing above-natural
disbursements every year since 2015 – but all SDG regions saw decreased fluctuations in surface water over the past five years. Wetland ecosystems
disbursements from 2019 to 2021. Additionally, donor alignment with have suffered an alarming 85 per cent loss in the past three centuries,
national water-sector plans remains low, with only 29 per cent of countries primarily from drainage and land conversion. Since 1970, a staggering 81
reporting high alignment in 2021. per cent of species dependent on inland wetlands have declined, surpassing
declines in other biomes, and an increasing number are at risk of extinction.
It is imperative to prioritize the protection and restoration of wetlands on a
large scale.
25 Goal 6 | Clean water and sanitation
Affordable and clean
energy
• The world continues to advance towards sustainable energy targets – but
not fast enough. At the current pace, about 660 million people will still
lack access to electricity and close to 2 billion people will still rely on
polluting fuels and technologies for cooking by 2030.
• Renewable sources power nearly 30 per cent of energy consumption
in the electricity sector, but challenges remain in heating and transport
sectors. Developing countries experience 9.6 per cent annual growth in
In Lebanon, women install solar panels as part of efforts to empower
renewable energy installation, but despite enormous needs, international women in the renewable energy sector, improving their skills for
financial flows for clean energy continue to decline. economic empowerment during crises and the pandemic.
• To ensure access to energy for all by 2030, we must accelerate
electrification, increase investments in renewable energy, improve
energy efficiency and develop enabling policies and regulatory
frameworks.
More people than ever have access to electricity, but the pace is lagging for least developed countries
The global electricity access rate increased from 87 per cent in 2015 to 91 Proportion of population with access to electricity, 2015 and 2021 (percentage)
per cent in 2021, serving close to an additional 800 million people. However,
Oceania* 36
675 million people still lacked access to electricity in 2021, mostly located 38
in LDCs. Despite steady progress in the last six years, the annual access Sub-Saharan Africa 39 50
growth rate of 0.6 percentage points between 2019 and 2021 lags behind the Northern Africa and Western Asia 93
94
0.8 percentage points observed in 2015–2019. In sub-Saharan Africa, due
Latin America and the Caribbean 97
to population growth, the number of people without access has remained 98
stubbornly stagnant since 2010, leaving 567 million without access in 2021. Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 9 97 8
Electrification can help increase educational attainment, improve health care, Central and Southern Asia 88
99
support agriculture development, reduce gender inequality, enhance climate
Europe and Northern America 99
action and create business opportunities and jobs. However, if the current 100
pace continues, some 660 million people will still be without electricity by Australia and New Zealand 11 00 00
2030. To change course and achieve universal access by 2030, the access
Least developed countries 42
rate must increase by 1 percentage point annually between 2021 and 2030. 56
World 87
91
0 20 40 60 80 100
2015 2021
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
At the current pace, a quarter of the population will still be using unsafe and inefficient cooking systems
by 2030
In 2021, around 2.3 billion people – 29 per cent of the global population – Absolute number of people and proportion of the global population with access to
clean cooking fuels and technologies, 2015–2021 (billions and percentage)
were still relying on inefficient and polluting cooking systems, jeopardizing
their health, limiting their life opportunities, and damaging the climate and 8 100
environment. Between 2015 and 2021, the proportion of people with access
to clean cooking fuels and technologies increased only by 7 percentage 6 75
points. However, South-Eastern Asia saw significant and consistent progress,
achieving access for around three-quarters of its population in 2021, up 14 4 50
percentage points from 2015. Conversely, the region with the lowest access 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.1 5.3 5.4 5.6
rates was sub-Saharan Africa, where progress towards clean cooking has 2 25
failed to keep pace with growing populations, leaving a total of 0.9 billion 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.3
people without access in 2021. If current trends continue, only 77 per cent 0 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
of the global population will have access to clean cooking solutions by 2030,
leaving nearly 1.9 billion people behind, including 1.1 billion in sub-Saharan
Africa.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 26
noitalupoP Percentage
Population with access to clean fuels and technologies for cooking (left axis)
Population without access to clean fuels and technologies for cooking (left axis)
Percentage of the global population with access to clean cooking fuels and technologies
(right axis)
Renewable energy use is growing in the electricity sector, but limited in heating and transport
Globally, in 2020, renewable sources accounted for 19.1 per cent of total final Share of renewable sources in final energy consumption and by end use, 2015 and
energy consumption, representing a 2.4-percentage-point increase from 2020 (percentage)
2015. Over the same period, total renewable energy consumption increased
6.7 10.0 16.7
Total final energy consumption
by 16 per cent. Traditional uses of biomass – such as the burning of wood in
6.6 12.5 19.1
open stoves or fireplaces – still represented over a third of total renewable
energy use in 2020. But modern renewable sources are slowly expanding, 22.9
Electricity
from 10 per cent of total final energy consumption in 2015 to 12.5 per cent 28.2
in 2020. The electricity sector shows the largest share of renewables in
total final energy consumption (28.2 per cent in 2020). However, progress 3.2
Transport
in the heating and transport sectors has been limited over the past decade, 4.0
as upward trends in demand have outpaced the deployment of renewables.
13.8 9.2 23.0
Meeting the targets of Goal 7 and the Paris Agreement will require sustained Heat
13.6 10.4 24.0
policy momentum to scale up both renewable energy deployment and
energy conservation in all sectors, as well as to mobilize public and private 0 10 20 30
investment, particularly in developing countries. 2015 2020 Traditional use of biomass
A strong rebound is needed to reach energy efficiency targets
Global primary energy intensity, defined as the ratio of total energy supply Annual change of global primary energy intensity, 1990–2020 (percentage)
to GDP – in essence, the amount of energy used per unit of wealth created –
1.0
improved from 4.96 megajoules per dollar (2017 purchasing power parity)
0.5
in 2015 to 4.63 in 2020, representing an average annual improvement rate
0.0
of 1.4 per cent. This is well below the 2.6 per cent required to meet target -0.5
7.3 of doubling the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030 -1.0
(compared with the baseline rate of 1990–2010). In 2020, the improvement -1.5
rate slowed down to 0.6 per cent, due to the COVID-19 crisis, marking the -2.0
smallest gains since the global financial crisis. It is expected that energy -2.5
-3.0
intensity will improve at a higher pace in 2022. However, to make up for
-3.5
lost time, energy intensity improvements will need to average 3.4 per cent
per year until 2030. Prioritizing energy efficiency in policy and increasing
investment can help the world achieve energy and climate targets.
27 Goal 7 | Affordable and clean energy
0991 0002 0102 1102 5102 6102 0202
Annual change Period average
International public financing for clean energy in Renewable energy is booming in developing
developing countries continues to decline countries, but the least developed are falling
behind
International public financial flows in support of clean energy in developing
countries have been on a decreasing trend, starting even before the In 2021, developing countries installed a record-breaking 268 watts per
COVID-19 pandemic and continuing through 2021. They amounted to capita of renewable energy-generating capacity, following two decades of
$10.8 billion in 2021, down by nearly 12 per cent from 2020. This was 35 steady increases that have consistently outpaced population growth. The
per cent less than the 2010–2019 decade-long average, and less than half compound annual growth rate of renewable energy in developing countries
the 2017 peak of $26.4 billion. In 2021, the distribution of financial flows by from 2016–2021 was 9.6 per cent, compared to 8.6 per cent for 2010–2015.
technology shifted from hydropower to solar energy: with solar accounting But despite this positive and accelerating growth, developing countries are
for 43 per cent; other renewables garnering 33 per cent of flows; and the still not on track to meet SDG 7.b targets by 2030, and those countries most
lowest number of commitments being for hydropower (16 per cent), and in need are being left behind. From 2016 to 2021, the annual growth rate was
wind and geothermal energy (8 per cent combined). These decreasing significantly lower for SIDS (8.5 per cent), LDCs (5.5 per cent) and LLDCs
trends jeopardize the chances of achieving energy goals, particularly for (3.8 per cent). At current rates, LDCs would need almost 40 years, LLDCs
LDCs, landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) and small island developing 25 and SIDS 13 years to reach the same level of deployment that developing
States (SIDS). countries overall achieved in 2021. Closing these gaps will require tailored
policies and investments to ensure a just and climate-safe energy transition.
Decent work and
economic growth
• Multiple crises are placing the global economy under serious threat.
Global real GDP per capita growth is forecast to slow down in 2023.
Challenging economic conditions are pushing more workers into informal
employment.
• As economies start to recover, the global unemployment rate has
experienced a significant decline. However, the youth unemployment
rate continues to be much higher than the rate for adults, indicating
Anisa, who turned to the profession of electronic device repairs to
ongoing challenges in securing employment opportunities for young
help women customers, mends a laptop at her phone and computer
people.
maintenance shop in Yemen.
• The pandemic has accelerated digital adoption and transformed access
to finance. Globally, 76 per cent of adults had bank accounts or accounts
• Achieving Goal 8 will require a wholesale reform of the financial system
with regulated institutions in 2021, up from 62 per cent in 2014.
to tackle rising debts, economic uncertainty and trade tensions, while
promoting equitable pay and decent work for young people.
Global economic recovery continues on a slow trajectory
The global economy is grappling with persistent inflation, increasing interest Annual growth rate of global real GDP per capita and annual growth rate of real
rates and heightened uncertainties. Global real GDP per capita increased GDP of LDCs, 2015–2024 (percentage)
at an average annual rate of 1.8 per cent from 2015 to 2019, then sharply 6.0
declined by 4.1 per cent in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It then
rebounded in 2021 with a solid 5.2 per cent increase, only to decelerate to 4.0
2.2 per cent in 2022. Estimates are that growth will further dwindle, to 1.4
2.0
per cent in 2023, followed by a modest increase of 1.6 per cent in 2024.
0.0
In LDCs, the annual growth rate of real GDP dropped from 5 per cent in
2019 to just 0.2 per cent in 2020 before recovering to 2.8 per cent in 2021. -2.0
However, it is estimated that growth will resume, with the annual rate rising
-4.0
to 4.3 per cent in 2022 and further increasing by 4.1 per cent and 5.2 per
cent in 2023 and 2024, respectively. However, these growth rates still fall -6.0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022* 2023* 2024*
short of the SDG target of 7 per cent.
(projected)
Global real GDP per capita Real GDP of LDCs
Challenging economic conditions are pushing more workers into informal employment
Before the pandemic, the incidence of informal employment had been Proportion of informal employment, 2015-2022 (percentage)
slowly declining, from 58.6 per cent in 2015 to 57.8 per cent in 2019.
Sub-Saharan Africa 86.6
However, COVID-19 lockdowns and containment measures resulted in 87.2
disproportionate job losses for informal workers, particularly women. The Central and Southern Asia 8 84 4. .5 8
subsequent recovery was driven by informal employment, which saw a slight Oceania* 77.5
76.4
uptick, reaching 58.0 per cent in 2022. This corresponds to around 2 billion Northern Africa and Western Asia 53.0
55.0
workers in precarious jobs without social protection.
Latin America and the Caribbean 54.5
53.8
The situation was most alarming in LDCs, where informal employment stood Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 57.5
53.5
at 89.7 per cent in 2022, with no improvement since 2015. Sub-Saharan Australia and New Zealand 28.0
24.9
Africa and Central and Southern Asia also continued to have high informality
Europe and Northern America 13.9
rates, at 87.2 per cent and 84.8 per cent, respectively. Women have been 13.2
worse off during the employment recovery, with four out of five jobs created World 58.6
58.0
in 2022 for women being informal, compared to only two out of three jobs
0 20 40 60 80 100
for men.
2015 2022
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 28
Global unemployment is expected to decline below pre-pandemic levels, but challenges persist in low-
income countries
The global unemployment rate declined significantly in 2022, falling to The pandemic disproportionately affected women and youth in labour
5.4 per cent from a peak of 6.6 per cent in 2020 as economies began markets. Women experienced a stronger recovery in employment and labour
recovering from the shock of the COVID-19 pandemic. This rate was lower force participation than men. However, young people aged 15–24 continue to
than the pre-pandemic level of 5.5 per cent in 2019. The estimated total face severe difficulties in securing decent employment, and the global youth
global unemployment in 2022 was 192 million. Projections indicate that unemployment rate is much higher than the rate for adults aged 25 and
global unemployment is expected to decrease further to 5.3 per cent in above.
2023, equivalent to 191 million people. This decline reflects greater-than-
anticipated labour market resilience in high-income countries in the face of
the economic slowdown. However, low-income countries are unlikely to see
such declines in unemployment in 2023.
Unemployment rate, 2019, 2020, 2022 and 2023 projections (percentage)
2019 2020 2022 2023 projections
Low-income countries 5.2 5.9 5.7 5.7
Lower-middle-income countries 5.5 6.5 5.1 5.1
Upper-middle-income countries 6.0 6.8 6.0 5.7
High-income countries 4.8 6.5 4.5 4.6
World 5.5 6.6 5.4 5.3
0 5 10 0 5 10 0 5 10 0 5 10
Young women are more than twice as likely as young men to be out of education, employment or
training
Share of youth not in education, employment or training by sex, 2022
(percentage)
Globally, nearly 1 in 4 young people (23.5 per cent or 289 million) were
not in education, employment or training (NEET) in 2022. While this is a 50
slight decrease from the peak in 2020, it remains higher than pre-pandemic
40
levels and also above the 2015 baseline of 22.2 per cent. Across regions, the
situation remains most dire for young people in Central and Southern Asia 30 31.4 28.8 31.7
and in Northern Africa and Western Asia, with NEET rates of 31.4 and 28.8 48.7 25.7 23.5
per cent, respectively. Meanwhile, sub-Saharan Africa recorded the highest 20 40.2 20.3
rate increase from 2015 to 2022, with now more than a quarter of young 35.5 28.2 31.4 26.9 16.6 32.1
11.0
people in the region not in education, employment or training. 10 15.4 17.9 20.1 13.9 19.8 13.7 11.510.5
8.4
78 .. 92 15.4
Alarmingly, young women remained more than twice as likely (32.1 per 0
Central Northern Oceania* Sub- Latin Eastern Europe Australia World
cent) as young men (15.4 per cent) to not be in education, employment or and Africa Saharan America and and and
Southern and Africa and the South- Northern New
training in 2022. Efforts to reduce youth NEET rates, especially among young
Asia Western Caribbean Eastern America Zealand
women, need to be intensified to address the long-term impacts on their Asia Asia
economic potential and future opportunities. Female Male Total
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
Tourism is on a path to recovery, but still well COVID-19 has accelerated the adoption of digital
below pre-pandemic levels solutions, transforming access to finance
Tourism has been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, The accelerated adoption of digital solutions, fuelled in part by the COVID-19
the share of tourism in global GDP was nearly halved by the pandemic. There pandemic, is transforming access to finance. In 2021, 76 per cent of adults
was a modest 6 per cent improvement in 2021, with the sector’s contribution worldwide had an account at a bank or regulated institution such as a credit
to global GDP reaching 2.5 per cent. While this indicates that tourism is union, microfinance institution, or mobile money service-provider, a notable
on a path to recovery, it is still considerably below the pre-pandemic level increase from 62 per cent in 2014. Technology has played a crucial role
of 4.2 per cent in 2019. The recovery and economic contributions of the in advancing financial inclusion, as evidenced by the sizeable increase in
tourism industry varied across regions, largely influenced by remaining mobile money accounts, from 4 per cent in 2017 to 10 per cent in 2021. New
travel restrictions and the strength of domestic tourism. In 2021, tourism opportunities to reach the unbanked include leveraging digital payments,
had higher economic contributions in Latin America and the Caribbean (5.9 such as direct transfers of social welfare or wage payments, along with
per cent), Northern Africa and Western Asia (5.2 per cent) and Europe interoperable payments networks and telecommunications infrastructure.
and Northern America (2.2 per cent) compared to sub-Saharan Africa (1.2 During the COVID-19 crisis, 39 per cent of adults in low- and middle-income
percent) and Central and Southern Asia (0.4 per cent). economies opened their first account at a financial institution specifically to
receive wage payments or government transfers.
29 Goal 8 | Decent work and economic growth
Industry, innovation and
infrastructure
• The manufacturing industry’s recovery from the coronavirus disease
(COVID-19) pandemic remains incomplete and uneven. Global
manufacturing growth slowed down to 3.3 per cent in 2022, from 7.4
per cent in 2021. Progress in least developed countries (LDCs) is far
from sufficient to reach the target of doubling the manufacturing share
in gross domestic product (GDP) by 2030. However, medium-high- and
high-technology industries demonstrated robust growth rates.
Workers in Bhutan address Phangyul’s water scarcity with the
• As of 2022, 95 per cent of the world’s population was within reach of a installation of a pressurized piped irrigation scheme, retrofitted with
mobile broadband network, but some areas remain underserved. new and climate-resilient technology. The new irrigation will benefit 24
villages and more than 1,300 acres of agricultural land.
• Global carbon dioxide (CO) emissions from energy combustion and
2
industrial processes grew by 0.9 per cent to a new all-time high of 36.8 • To achieve Goal 9 by 2030, it is essential to support LDCs, invest in
billion metric tons, well below global GDP growth, reverting to a decade- advanced technologies, lower carbon emissions and increase mobile
long trend of decoupling emissions and economic growth. broadband access.
Least developed countries face challenges in achieving the manufacturing target by 2030
After rebounding from the COVID-19 pandemic with a 7.4 per cent growth Manufacturing value as a share of GDP in LDCs, 2015–2022 (percentage)
rate in 2021, global manufacturing growth is estimated to have slowed to 3.3
30
per cent in 2022. This is primarily due to high inflation, energy price shocks,
persistent disruptions in the supply of raw materials and intermediate goods, 25
and global economic deceleration. In 2021, global manufacturing employment
20
returned to its pre-pandemic level. However, the share of manufacturing
employment in total employment continued to decline worldwide, falling from
15
14.3 per cent in 2015 to 13.6 per cent in 2021.
10
Despite the slowdown, the global manufacturing value added (MVA) per
capita increased from $1,646 (constant 2015 prices) in 2015 to $1,879 in
5
2022. Europe and Northern America reached an all-time high of $5,093 in
2022, while the MVA per capita in LDCs reached $159. Although the share of 0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
manufacturing as a proportion of GDP in LDCs increased from 12.1 per cent (estimated)
in 2015 to 14.0 per cent in 2022, the pace is insufficient to reach the target LDCs African LDCs Asian LDCs Target 2030
of doubling its share by 2030. While LDCs in Asia have made considerable
progress, African LDCs would need to change the current trajectory and
accelerate progress significantly to attain the target by 2030.
Economic growth outpaced increases in CO emissions, aided by the use of clean technologies and
2
reduced industrial output
In 2022, global CO emissions from energy combustion and industrial prevent additional emissions, resulting in lower-than-expected global
2
processes grew by 0.9 per cent and reached a record high of 36.8 billion emissions growth.
metric tons. After a more than 5 per cent reduction in 2020 during the
Global CO emissions from energy combustion and industrial processes, 2000–2022
pandemic, emissions grew over 6 per cent in 2021, surpassing pre-pandemic 2
(billion metric tons)
levels, driven by economic stimulus and a surge in coal demand. The
rebound was faster in advanced economies, where aviation emissions 40
reached 85 per cent of 2019 levels, compared with 73 per cent in emerging
35
market and developing economies. CO increases in 2022 were well below
2
global GDP growth of 3.2 per cent, returning to the decade-long trend of
30
decoupling emissions from economic growth, which was disrupted by
the sharp rebound in 2021. The increased deployment of clean energy 25
technologies, such as renewables, electric vehicles and heat pumps, and
20
reduced industrial production, particularly in China and Europe, helped 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2022
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 30
Global research and development spending is up, particularly since the pandemic, but is still too low in
least developed countries
Global expenditure on research and development (R&D) as a proportion Research and development expenditure as a proportion of GDP, 2015 and 2020
(percentage)
of GDP increased from 1.69 per cent in 2015 to 1.93 per cent in 2020.
The significant increase in 2020 was primarily driven by increased R&D Sub-Saharan Africa 0.35
0.32
investments and substantial declines in GDP. However, there were gaping Central and Southern Asia 0.60
0.58
regional differences. Europe and Northern America, and Eastern and South-
Latin America and the Caribbean 0.72
Eastern Asia led the way, spending 2.62 per cent and 2.31 per cent of GDP on 0.63
Northern Africa and Western Asia 0.75
R&D in 2020, respectively. But many regions were still spending less than 1 0.90
per cent of their GDP on R&D in 2020, such as 0.32 per cent in sub-Saharan Australia and New Zealand 1.1 7.8 73
Africa to 0.90 per cent in Northern Africa and Western Asia. Meanwhile, Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 2.05
2.31
LDCs, and landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) were spending around Europe and Northern America 2.24
2.62
0.27 per cent and 0.20 per cent of their GDP on R&D, respectively.
Least developed countries 0.27
0.27
The number of researchers per million inhabitants has increased worldwide Landlocked developing countries 0.23
0.20
from 1,022 in 2010 and 1,160 in 2015 to 1,342 in 2020. However, women
accounted for only 31.2 per cent of global researchers in 2020. To leverage World 1.69 1.93
innovation for post-pandemic recovery and sustainable development, strong
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
policies to spur R&D investment and increase the number of researchers are
2015 2020
crucial, particularly in developing economies.
Note: There is insufficient data coverage for Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand)
to calculate a regional aggregate.
Strong growth in medium-high- and high-technology industries amid global manufacturing slowdown
In 2022, while overall global manufacturing growth slowed, medium-high- Year-over-year growth rate of global manufacturing production, by technology,
and high-technology industries remained strong as a result of a recovery fourth quarter of 2019 to fourth quarter of 2022 (percentage)
in the automotive sector and consistently strong production of computers, 25
electronics and optical products, and electrical equipment. However, the
20
production of basic pharmaceuticals experienced a loss for the first time
15
in 2022 as the sector readjusted to the COVID-19 situation and faced a
10
shortage of essential inputs.
5
In 2020, the share of medium-high and high-technology production within
0
total manufacturing remained low in sub-Saharan Africa and LDCs, at 21.7
-5
per cent and 10.6 per cent, respectively, compared with 47.7 per cent in
Europe and Northern America and 47.1 per cent in Eastern Asia. Transitioning -10
to medium- and high-tech industry not only holds promise for sustainable -15
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
economic growth, but also contributes to green growth as these activities are 2019 2020 2021 2022
generally less energy- and emission-intensive.
Low-technology Medium-low-technology Medium-high and high-technology
More than 95 per cent of the world has mobile broadband access of at least 3G, but connecting the final
frontier is proving difficult
Proportion of population covered by a mobile network, 2022 (percentage)
In 2022, mobile broadband coverage of 3G or higher was available to 95
per cent of the global population, a significant increase from 78 per cent in Sub-Saharan Africa 49
82
2015. However, connecting the remaining 5 per cent presents challenges. Oceania* 59
68
The coverage gap is 18 per cent in sub-Saharan African and 32 per cent in
Northern Africa and Western Asia 83
Oceania. 98
Latin America and the Caribbean 88
92
Between 2015 and 2022, 4G network coverage doubled, reaching 88 per Central and Southern Asia 94
96
cent of the world’s population, but growth has slowed. Currently, coverage 97
Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 98
exceeds 90 per cent of the population in most regions. Only Latin America
Europe and Northern America 99
and the Caribbean, Northern Africa and Western Asia, Oceania (excluding 99
Australia and New Zealand) and sub-Saharan Africa remain below that Australia and New Zealand 99 99
threshold. Preliminary data show that in 2021, 19 per cent of the global Least developed countries 49
83
population was covered by a 5G network. Many countries are phasing out
Landlocked developing countries 46
older-generation networks to adopt more efficient networks compatible 81
71
with 5G. However, in other countries, particularly low-income countries, 2G Small island developing States 84
and 3G networks retain a significant presence, and there are barriers to 5G World 88
95
deployment, including high infrastructure costs, device affordability, and
0 20 40 60 80 100
regulatory and adoption constraints.
At least 4G At least 3G
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
31 Goal 9 | Industry, innovation and infrastructure
Reduced inequalities
• The incomes of the poorest 40 per cent of the population had been
growing faster than the national average in most countries. But emerging
yet inconclusive evidence suggests that COVID-19 may have put a dent
in this positive trend of falling within-country inequality. The pandemic
has also caused the largest rise in between-country inequality in three
decades.
• One in six people worldwide has experienced discrimination in some Migrants cross the dangerous Darien jungle between Colombia and
form, with women and people with disabilities disproportionately Panama, which saw a seven-fold increase in the number of children
affected. going through the jungle in the first two months of 2023 compared
with 2022.
• The year 2022 witnessed the highest number of refugees (34.6 million
people) ever documented. This year is also a deadly one for migrants,
implementing social protection measures, combating discrimination,
with nearly 7,000 deaths recorded globally.
supporting marginalized groups and fostering international cooperation
• Reducing both within- and between-country inequality requires equitable for fair trade and financial systems.
resource distribution, investing in education and skills development,
Most countries experienced increased shared prosperity, but the pandemic may have reversed some of
this progress
Among countries with data for 2009–2022, more than half achieved income on the bottom of the income distribution. Emerging evidence indicates that
growth for the poorest 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than inequality within countries may have worsened as a result of the pandemic,
the national average. But the share of countries that experienced shared with surveys in 2021 showing that poorer households lost incomes and jobs
prosperity was higher in high- and middle-income regions than in their at slightly higher rates than richer households.
fragile and low-income peers. More than three-quarters of countries in
Europe and NortThweor ndi fAfemreentr igcuaid aen lady e6r so fuort towfo 1-0 a ncdo tuhnreter-ielinse i ntit Eleass. tern and Share of countries where income growth of the poorest 40 per cent of the population
Guides for edge of right-aligned text and bars are uniform (and account for is higher than the national average, 2009–2022 (percentage)
South-Eastern Asspiaac es afowr otthhee ri nlacnogumageess )o.f the poorest 40 per cent grow faster
than the nationaSl waavtecrhaegs ear. eH oof wfulel,v 7e5r%, i,n 5 C0%en atnrda l2 a5%nd c oSlooru.thern Asia and sub- Central and Southern Asia 30.0
Saharan Africa, tAhlle b ianrcs oshmouelsd obef t0hpe6 pwoidoerest 40 per cent grew faster than the Sub-Saharan Africa 37.9
mean in only 30w –3it 8h 0 p s ep ra cc ein ng t w oit fh cin o c uo nu tn rt ir ey s c . ategories Northern Africa and Western Asia 45.5
and 0p2 spacing between country categories.
Latin America and the Caribbean 50.0
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart,
Post-2019 data a 0r pe 6 s st pi all c s inp ga fr rs oe m a mn ad in i n rec go ion nc sl .u sive. In two thirds of the 50 Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 60.0
countries with d Na uta m, bt eh re l ap bo eo ls r se hs ot u 4 ld0 b ep ie nr s ic de e n cot le orx bp ae rr si (e idn ec ae lld y) h anig dh 0e pr 3 i fn roc mom ede g e. Europe and Northern America 77.5
growth than the Ifn oauttiosindea,l l eafvt-earliaggneed. H anodw 0epv3e arw, tahy.is trend is largely driven by
World 54.6
Europe and NortNhuemrnb eAr lminee r0ipc2a bwelhoewr beo mttoomre b dara. Statr oakree . 2a5vpati.lable and where
Tick marks 0p3 long. Text 0p1 below tick mark. 0 20 40 60 80 100
large transfer programmes have mitigated COVID-19’s economic impacts
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and
text.
Legend color bubble 0p6.
The pandeLemgenidc 0 ph6 abeslo wc nauumbseer ldine tlahbeels. Alanyr ngotee s0pt6 rbiesloew leignen idn. come inequality between countries in three decades
Note uses hanging indent.
Over the past three decades, incomes in lower and middle-income countries Change in inequality between countries, 1990–2020 (percentage)
have been catching up to those of richer countries. Overall, the income
6
differences between countries decreased by 37 per cent between 1990 and
2019. Recently, however, this convergence has slowed considerably. The 4
average annual decline in inequality between countries in the last five years 2
before the pandemic was 0.3 per cent, much lower than the average annual
0
reduction of 1.8 per cent between 1991 and 2014. And although there had
-2
been increases in global between-country inequality in only 5 of the 29 years
before the pandemic, the onslaught of COVID-19 has caused the largest -4
increase in between-country inequality in three decades, according to World -6
Bank estimates.31 Between-country inequality is projected to have risen 4.4 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
per cent between 2019 and 2020, compared with the pre-pandemic forecast Historical Counterfactual COVID-19
of a 0.8 per cent reduction. Note: The annual changes in inequality between countries use the mean log deviation.
3 Mahler, Daniel G., Nishant Yonzan and Christoph Lakner, “The Impact of COVID-19 on Global Inequality and Poverty.” Policy Research Working Paper, No. 10198
(Washington, D.C., World Bank, 2022).
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 32
Racial discrimination is one of the most common grounds for discrimination worldwide
The latest available data show that close to one in six people globally Proportion of the overall population experiencing discrimination, by selected grounds
experience discrimination based on any grounds. Among both women and and sex, 2015–2022 (percentage)
men, racial discrimination, rooted in factors such as ethnicity, colour or Sex
language, is among the most common grounds. Discrimination based on 7
6
age and religion, though slightly less widespread, also affects women and
5
men almost equally. Women are twice as likely as men to report instances of Marital status 4 Ethnicity, colour or languauge
discrimination based on sex and almost twice as likely as men to experience 3
2
discrimination on the basis of marital status. Persons with disabilities also
1
encounter high levels of discrimination, with one in three reporting such 0
experiences, twice the rate encountered by individuals without disabilities.
Political views Age
Religion
Men Women
With deaths along migratory routes rising globally, urgent action is needed to ensure safe migration
According to the Missing Migrants Project of the International Organization Number of deaths during migration, by region, 2022
for Migration (IOM), a total of 56,216 deaths on migratory routes worldwide
Africa,
have been recorded since 2014, of which 6,876 were in 2022 and 2,091 were 434
as of mid-June 2023. With the exception of 2020, more than 5,000 deaths
hadbeen documented during migration each year between 2014 and 2022.
Americas,
In 2022, at least 3,167 people died on maritime and land routes to and 1,432
Routes to and within Europe,
through Europe, accounting for more than half of the fatalities recorded
3,167
worldwide that year. It was also the deadliest year in the Americas and Asia
since data collection began, with 1,432 and 1,843 individuals losing their lives
during migration, respectively. These data show lack of progress in reducing
migrant deaths worldwide since 2015. While there was a decline in deaths
during the first year of the pandemic, the numbers have since returned to
Asia,
pre-pandemic levels and in many cases even surpassed them. 1,843
Note: The regions correspond to IOM regional definitions.
Record numbers of people are fleeing their countries in the face of mounting crises
The global number of refugees has increased annually for more than a Proportion of the population who are refugees, by region of origin, 2015 and 2022
decade, reaching 34.6 million by the end of 2022, the highest number ever (per 100,000 population in the region of origin)
recorded. This represents 429 out of 100,000 people, or 1 in 233, who fled
their countries of origin owing to war, conflict, persecution, human rights 1,600
violations or events seriously disturbing the public order. This represents an 1,439
increase of more than 100 per cent compared with 2015. Overall, 52 per cent 1,200 1,215
of all refugees and other people in need of international protection came
800 870
from just three countries: the Syrian Arab Republic (6.5 million), Ukraine (5.7
million) and Afghanistan (5.7 million). Around 41 per cent of all refugees at 400 465593 522 429
the end of 2022 were children, while 51 per cent of refugees were women 291
72 46 166 45 63 3 3 213
and girls. Low- and middle-income countries hosted 76 per cent of the 0
Northern Latin Sub- Europe Central Eastern Oceania World
world’s refugees and other people in need of international protection, with Africa America Saharan and and and
the LDCs providing asylum to 20 per cent of the total. and and Africa NorthernSouthern South-
Western the America Asia Eastern
Asia Caribbean Asia
2015 2022
33 Goal 10 | Reduced inequalities
Sustainable cities and
communities
• Over half of the global population currently resides in urban areas, a rate
projected to reach 70 per cent by 2050. Approximately 1.1 billion people
currently live in slums or slum-like conditions in cities, with 2 billion more
expected in the next 30 years.
• In 2022, only half of the world’s urban population had convenient access
to public transportation. Urban sprawl, air pollution and limited open
public spaces persist in cities.
A metro line tunnel and station providing a safer and more sustainable
• Since 2015, the number of countries with national and local disaster risk
transport system is under construction in Lima, Peru.
reduction strategies has doubled.
• To achieve Goal 11, efforts must focus on implementing inclusive, resilient
and sustainable urban development policies and practices that prioritize
access to basic services, affordable housing, efficient transportation and
green spaces for all.
Smaller cities and towns in many regions are recording faster growth in slum populations than major cities
The world’s popuTlawtoi odniff erereanct hgeuidd e8 l abyiellriso fnor i tnw No-o avnedm thbreeer- l2in0e 2ti2tle, sw. ith over Proportion of global urban population living in slums (percentage) and total slum
half (55 per cent)G lu ivid ie ns g f o inr e ud rg be ao nf r aig rh et a-a sli ,g an e fd ig t uex ret a pn rd o b ja er cs t a er de u toni f ro ir sm e ( ta on d 7 0ac c po eu rn t for population (millions), 2000–2020
space for other languages).
cent by 2050. Mo Swst a to cf h eth s e ar eu r ob f fa un ll , g 7r 5o %w , 5th 0 %is at na dk 2in 5g % p cl oa loc re . in small cities and 35 1,100
intermediate towAnlsl b, aerxsa scheorublda btein 0gp i6n weiqduealities and urban poverty. While the
proportion of thew uitrhb 0a nsp paocipngu lwaittihoinn c loivuinntrgy icna tselguomriess declined slightly, from 25.4 30 1,050
and 0p2 spacing between country categories.
to 24.2 per cent between 2014 and 2020, the total number of slum dwellers
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart, 25 1,000
continues to rise 0wpi6t hsp ianccinreg afrsoimng m uarinb raengiioznast.i on. In 2020, an estimated 1.1
billion urban residNeunmtbse lri vlaebde lsin s hsoluulmd bse o inr ssidlue mco-lolirk bea crso (niddeiatliloy)n asn.d O 0pv3e rfr tohme e dge. 20 950
If outside, left-aligned and 0p3 away.
next 30 years, an additional 2 billion people are expected to live in such
Number line 0p2 below bottom bar. Stroke .25pt. 15 900
settlements – some 183,000 people daily – mostly in developing countries.
Tick marks 0p3 long. Text 0p1 below tick mark.
Today, 85 per cent of slum dwellers are concentrated in three regions:
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and 10 850
Central and Southteexrtn. Asia (359 million), Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
(306 million) andL esguebnd-S caolhoar rbaunbb Alef 0ripc6a. (230 million). The escalating slum 5 800
population is a mLaengiefneds 0tapt6io bnel oowf tnhuem hbeoru lisnien lga bcerliss. iAsn, yh nigohtel i0gph6t ibneglo twh ele gneenedd. for
Note uses hanging indent. 0 750
diverse housing options, equitable public transportation and basic services
2000 2005 2007 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020
to meet the varied needs of urban residents.
Proportion of slum population Total slum population in millions
(left axis) (right axis)
The demand for urban transportation continues to grow exponentially, particularly in developing
countries
The quality and availability of transportation infrastructure varies greatly Coverage of public transport and share of population with convenient access in
urban areas, 2022 (percentage)
across countries and regions and even within cities. In developed countries,
people tend to have more than one transportation option, although these Sub-Saharan Africa 23.3
30.7
are not always available in an equitable or environmentally sensitive manner. Northern Africa and Western Asia 24.5
36.1
But in the developing world, where an estimated 1 billion people still lack Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 24.8
40.9
access to all-weather roads, the demand for mobility for people and goods
Central and Southern Asia 25.9
has been expanding exponentially every year. Data from 2022 reveal that 33.7
only 51.6 per cent of the global urban population has convenient access Latin America and the Caribbean 33.0 43.3
to public transport, with considerable regional differences. Countries and Europe and Northern America 60.3 90.6
cities, particularly in the developing world, still have a long way to go in Australia and New Zealand 67.4
85.7
terms of developing safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport
World 37.0
systems. There is a pressing need for cities worldwide to integrate motorized 51.6
transportation systems with walking and cycling through long-term 0 20 40 60 80 100
sustainable urban mobility plans, targeted infrastructure investments and Urban areas served by public transport Population with convenient access
policy implementation.
Note: Based on data from 1,507 cities in 126 countries.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 34
Air pollution is not only an urban problem, but is also affecting towns and rural areas
Globally, air quality is improving, largely due to advancements in high- Population-weighted particulate matter (PM ) concentrations in cities, towns
2.5
income countries. However, small island developing States (SIDS) are and rural areas, 2019 (micrograms per cubic metre)
experiencing either stagnant or worsening air quality levels, albeit lower
Central and Southern Asia
than the global average. To compound matters, air pollution monitoring in
these countries is limited or non-existent. Low- and middle-income countries
Northern Africa and Western Asia
account for only 42 per cent of the 117 countries reporting air pollution
data from cities, and SIDS represent a mere 3 per cent of these countries. Sub-Saharan Africa
Although cities have traditionally been the focus of air pollution reduction
Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
policies, air quality in towns and rural areas should also be considered. In
2019, towns in Eastern and South-Eastern Asia, a region with a significant
Latin America and the Caribbean
proportion of the world’s population, experienced poorer air quality than
cities. Tackling air pollution requires a shift in perspective, acknowledging Europe and Northern America
that it is not solely an urban issue. While urban areas continue to be
Oceania
important, a comprehensive approach that also considers towns and rural
areas is crucial to combat air pollution effectively.
World
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Cities Towns Rural
Provision and access to open public spaces remains low across regions, impacting negatively on the
quality of urban life
Public spaces enhance inclusion, social cohesion and the productivity of Proportion of cities in each region where the population has access to open public
spaces, within a 400-metre walking distance, 2020 (percentage)
cities. However, 2020 data from 1,072 cities reveal that more than three-
quarters have less than 20 per cent of their area dedicated to open public Oceania*
spaces and streets. This figure falls short of the target of 45–50 per cent, Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
Central and Southern Asia
of which 15–25 per cent should be open public spaces and 30–35 per cent
Sub-Saharan Africa
streets and sidewalks. On average, open public spaces accounted for a mere
Northern Africa and Western Asia
3.2 per cent of urban land in 2020, about four times less than the share Latin America and the Caribbean
occupied by streets. However, these figures vary widely across regions, and Europe and Northern America
cities in more developed regions have higher proportions of land dedicated Australia and New Zealand
to streets and open spaces than those in developing regions. Furthermore, 0 20 40 60 80 100
countries in developed regions also have higher shares of the population Below 25 25—50 50—75 Above 75
with convenient access to open public spaces.
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
Urban sprawl is outpacing population growth Since 2015, many more national and local
in most cities, with detrimental effects on governments have reported having disaster risk
sustainability reduction strategies
Data from 681 cities spanning 30 years reveal that the global physical The number of countries with national disaster risk reduction strategies has
expansion of cities has outpaced population growth. For the period increased from 55 in 2015 to 126 by the end of 2022. One crucial aspect of
1990–2000, the global land consumption rate averaged 2.9 per cent, while these strategies is to promote policy coherence and compliance, notably
the population growth rate averaged 2.3 per cent. These rates declined to with the SDGs and the Paris Agreement – with 118 countries reporting
2.0 per cent and 1.6 per cent respectively for the period 2000–2010, and having some degree of policy coherence. In addition to national efforts,
further declined to 1.5 per cent and 1.2 per cent respectively in 2010–2020. local governments worldwide have also made progress on developing and
The overall steady decline in both the population growth rate and land implementing local disaster risk reduction strategies in line with national
consumption rate was observed in all regions, except Northern Africa and strategies. By the end of 2022, a total of 102 countries reported having local
Western Asia, where a higher population growth rate was recorded during governments with disaster risk reduction strategies, a substantial increase
the 2000–2010 period than in 1990–2000. The resulting urban sprawl from 51 in 2015. Among these countries, the average proportion of local
results in cities becoming less dense as they expand, but its unplanned governments that have local disaster risk reduction strategies is 72 per cent.
nature has detrimental effects on the sustainability of urban development.
35 Goal 11 | Sustainable cities and communities
Responsible
consumption and
production
• The material footprint per capita in high-income countries is 10 times the
level of low-income countries. The world is also seriously off track in its
efforts to halve per capita food waste and losses by 2030.
• Global crises triggered a resurgence in fossil fuel subsidies, nearly
doubling from 2020 to 2021.
• Reporting has increased on corporate sustainability and on public
Workers sort plastics at a recycling plant in Côte d’Ivoire. Plastic
procurement policies, but has fallen when it comes to sustainable
pollution threatens the country’s coast, lagoons, fishing and tourism.
consumption and monitoring sustainable tourism.
Overhauling the economic model governing plastics is essential to
address this crisis.
• Responsible consumption and production must be integral to recovery
from the pandemic and to acceleration plans of the Sustainable
Development Goals. It is crucial to implement policies that support a
shift towards sustainable practices and decouple economic growth from
resource use.
Regional inequalities in material footprints highlight consumption disparities
Two different guide layers for two- and three-line titles.
Between 2000 aGnudid 2es0 f1o9r ,e gdgloeb oaf lr idghotm-aleigsnteicd mtexatt aenrdia bla cros narseu umnipfotrimon (a (nDd MaccCo)u nt for Excess of domestic material consumption over material footprint, 2019 (percentage)
space for other languages).
– the amount of raw materials directly used for production processes in a
Swatches are of full, 75%, 50% and 25% color. Sub-Saharan Africa 32.4
country – increased by 66 per cent, tripling since the 1970s to reach 95.1
All bars should be 0p6 wide Latin America and the Caribbean 16.6
billion metric tonwsit. hI n0 2sp0a1c9in,g t hweit hcion rcroeusnptroyn cdatineggo mrieas terial footprint – the
Central and Southern Asia 1.6
amount of matearinadl s0 pe2x tsrpaacctinegd b teotw seaetnis cfoyu fnitnray lc catoengsoruiems.ption demand in a
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart, Eastern and South-Eastern Asia -1.0
country – was 95.9 billion metric tons. While the total volumes are similar
0p6 spacing from main regions. Oceania -1.5
globally, comparisons reveal regional inequalities in the environmental
Number labels should be inside color bars (ideally) and 0p3 from edge. Europe and Northern America -13.6
impact. In NorthIef ornut Asidfrei,c leaf ta-anlidg nWede asntde r0np 3A aswiaay, .and in Europe and Northern
Northern Africa and Western Asia -18.1
America, the maNtuemriabel rf olinoet p0rpi2n tb einlo w20 b1o9tt oemxc beaer.d Setrdo kDe M.25Cp tb.y 18 per cent and
14 per cent, respTeicckt imvealryk,s w0ph3il leo ning. LTaextitn 0 Ap1m beeloriwc ati cakn mda trhk.e Caribbean and -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and
sub-Saharan Africa, the material footprint was lower than DMC by 17 per
text.
cent and 32 per cent, respectively. These differences highlight the unequal
Legend color bubble 0p6.
responsibilities aLnegde cndo n0spu6 mbeplotwio nnu dmibsepra lrinitei elasb ebles.t Awneye nno tiem 0ppo6r bt-eolorwie lnegteendd a. nd
export-oriented Naontde ugseens ehraanlglyin hg iigndhe-nint.come and low-income countries. The
material footprint per capita in high-income countries is 10 times the level of
low-income countries. Therefore, it is essential to adopt sustainable policies
and raise awareness to ensure efficient and sustainable management of
limited and unequally exploited natural resources by 2030.
Fossil fuel subsidies rise back to 2014 levels despite calls for a phase-out
Fossil fuel subsidies create distortions in energy markets, hinder the Global estimates of fossil fuel subsidies, by fuel type, 2010–2021
transition to cleaner and more sustainable alternatives, and undermine (billions of dollars, nominal value)
efforts to combat climate change. In 2021, global data showed a resurgence
of such subsidies, with governments spending an estimated $732 billion 800
on subsidies for coal, oil and gas, nearly doubling the $375 billion spent in
2020. This was largely attributed to a rebound in energy prices after a drop 600
in 2020, bringing subsidies back to 2014 levels. Unfortunately, the global
energy crisis triggered by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022 is likely to
400
cause another increase in fossil fuel subsidies. Hopefully, these will be
short-term measures aimed at protecting consumers from the impacts of
the crisis. Many governments are now taking steps towards longer-term 200
solutions. Some are seeking to increase or diversify oil and gas supplies,
while others are accelerating structural changes. 0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Coal End-use electricity Natural gas Petroleum
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 36
Despite rising global hunger, food waste and losses are staggering and uneven
In 2021, although 828 million people were facing hunger, 13.2 per cent of Estimated total food waste and food waste in households per person, 2019
the world’s food was lost after harvest along the supply chain from farm (kilograms)
to consumer, hardly changed since 2016 and falling short of the target of Sub-Saharan Africa 155.3
112.7
substantially reducing post-harvest food losses by 2030. An additional
Northern Africa and Western Asia 137.0
17 per cent of food is wasted at household, food service, and retail levels, 94.3
Australia and New Zealand 124.6
resulting in a staggering 931 million tons of food waste or 120 kilograms 94.2
per capita in 2019. Sub-Saharan Africa experiences the highest food loss, Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 68.7 123.3
at 20 per cent, compared with 9 per cent in Europe and Northern America. Oceania* 122.8
82.7
While food loss shows regional differences, especially between high and Latin America and the Caribbean 116.0
73.0
low-income regions, household food waste per capita is similar across all Europe and Northern America 113.1
64.1
regional groups, highlighting the need for action in all countries. Despite
Central and Southern Asia 97.4
the importance of reducing food loss and waste, data are still scarce. 56.7
Tackling food loss and waste is urgent and requires dedicated policies, World 119.9
73.3
informed by data, as well as investments in technologies, infrastructure,
0 40 80 120 160
education and monitoring.
Total food waste Food waste in households
*Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
More companies, large and small, are reporting on their efforts to improve sustainability
The trend towards sustainability reporting is on the rise, with around 70 Increase in companies publishing sustainability reports, between 2020 and 2021
per cent of monitored companies publishing sustainability reports in 2021 – (percentage)
triple the percentage since 2016. South-Eastern Asia and Central America
have experienced the highest increase in sustainability reporting between Europe and Northern America 15.5
2020 and 2021, while the highest volume of reports is seen in Eastern Asia, Australia and New Zealand 19.1
Europe and Northern America. While large companies continue to lead the Oceania* 19.1
way in sustainability reporting, there is evidence of growth in disclosures Latin America and the Caribbean 24.0
among small and medium-sized enterprises, with growth rates of 37 and 34 Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 36.8
per cent, respectively, between 2020 and 2021. Companies are most likely Central and Southern Asia 44.8
to disclose policies related to water and energy, CO 2 emissions, occupational Northern Africa and Western Asia 58.9
health and safety, and board diversity. Companies continue to detail their
World 23.5
activities in attaining the Sustainable Development Goals, but only 10 per
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
cent report on all 17 Goals. Overall, the trend towards better sustainability
reporting is a positive development, indicating a growing awareness of the *Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
need to prioritize sustainable practices across all industries.
Global cooperation on sustainable consumption Despite increased public procurement reporting,
and production rises, while reporting dwindles sustainable tourism monitoring is down
Multilateral and multi-stakeholder cooperation on sustainable consumption Public procurement is a key factor in the economy of all countries,
has increased since 2015, inspiring science-based and transformative representing on average 13–20 per cent of GDP. Governments can leverage
policies in numerous countries. Between 2019 and 2022, 485 policy their purchasing power to drive markets towards greener and more
instruments supporting the shift to sustainable consumption and production innovative products and services, supporting sustainable development. In
were reported by 62 countries and the European Union, with increasing 2022, 67 national governments reported to the United Nations Environment
linkages to global environmental commitments on climate, biodiversity, Programme on the implementation of sustainable public procurement
pollution, waste and high-impact sectors. Meanwhile, reporting has policies and action plans, a 50 per cent increase from 2020. However, data
been decreasing by an average of 30 per cent every year since 2019, and show a marked decline in the number of countries implementing tools to
continues to reflect great regional imbalances, with more than 50 per cent monitor the sustainable development impacts of tourism in 2020–2021,
of policy instruments reported from Europe and Central Asia. Nevertheless, mainly due to disrupted statistical operations during the COVID-19
the international community adopted three ambitious agreements in 2022, pandemic. While tourism contributes to creating jobs and promoting
including the Sharm el-Sheikh Implementation Plan for a new global climate local culture and products, sustainable management of the sector’s
pact, the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework, and the United development is essential to protect its value. Countries must prioritize
Nations Environment Assembly resolution 5/14 on ending plastic pollution. monitoring sustainable tourism practices as part of their recovery, ensuring
These agreements underscore the need to shift towards a more sustainable economically viable and environmentally sustainable tourism.
and circular approach to consumption and production.
37 Goal 12 | Responsible consumption and production
Climate action
• With a climate cataclysm looming, the pace and scale of current climate
action plans are wholly insufficient to effectively tackle climate change.
Increasingly frequent and intense extreme weather events are already
impacting every region on Earth. Rising temperatures will escalate these
hazards further, posing grave risks.
• The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) emphasizes
that deep, rapid and sustained reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG)
Two men wade through flood water in Pakistan after torrential monsoon
emissions are essential in all sectors, beginning now and continuing
rains dumped up to five times the 30-year average rainfall. Such events
throughout this decade. To limit global warming to 1.5°C above pre- are now more likely and more severe due to climate change.
industrial levels, emissions must already be decreasing and need to be
cut by almost half by 2030, just seven years away.
• Urgent and transformative action is crucial, going beyond mere plans
and promises. It requires raising ambition, covering entire economies and
moving towards climate-resilient development, while outlining a clear
path to achieve net-zero emissions. Time is running out, and immediate
measures are necessary to avoid catastrophic consequences and secure
a sustainable future for generations to come.
Urgent global greenhouse gas emission reductions are needed to avert 1.5°C tipping point
The latest IPCC synthesis report unequivocally states that human activities, world will be for current and future generations will depend on the choices
particularly over a century of burning fossil fuels, unsustainable energy and we make today. To curb climate change, rapid, deep and sustained GHG
land use, and untenable consumption and production patterns, have caused emissions reductions in all sectors, starting now, are vital. This requires
global warming of 1.1°C above pre-industrial levels. This has led to a surge global climate-resilient development action, accelerated adaptation and
in extreme weather and climate events in every region, which is now the mitigation measures and leveraging SDG synergies. Increased finance,
everyday face of climate change. Vulnerable communities, despite having political commitment, coordinated policies, international cooperation,
contributed the least to climate change, are disproportionately affected. ecosystem stewardship and inclusive governance are all urgently needed for
Between 2010 and 2020, highly vulnerable regions, home to approximately effective and equitable climate action.
3.3–3.6 billion people, experienced 15 times higher human mortality rates
from floods, droughts and storms compared to regions with very low Global annual mean temperature relative to pre-industrial levels (1850–1900
vulnerability. The adverse impacts of climate change have caused substantial average), 1850–2022 (degrees Celsius)
damages and increasingly irreparable losses to ecosystems and human 1.3
lives, triggering food shortages, loss of housing and infrastructure, migration
1.0
of populations, and more. With further temperature increases, these
extreme events will worsen and become harder to manage. Moreover, the 0.8
effectiveness of adaptation measures diminishes with heightened warming. 0.5
The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)’s 0.3
latest nationally determined contributions (NDC) synthesis report finds 0.0
that the combined climate pledges of 193 Parties under the Paris Agreement
-0.3
will achieve a slight decrease (0.3 per cent) in GHG emissions by 2030
1850 1875 1900 1925 1950 1975 2000 2022
compared to 2019 levels. However, this falls well short of the 43 per cent
emissions reduction called for by the IPCC to be on the 1.5°C pathway and
would propel the world to an unsustainable potential warming of around
2.5°C by the end of the century.
The IPCC warns that without strengthened cross-sectoral policies, the world -0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
is likely to surpass the critical 1.5°C tipping point by 2035. How livable the Temperature °C
Source: The figure and climate stripes are drawn from the World Meteorological Organization’s
State of the Global Climate 2022 report, which combines six international data sets for
temperature: HadCRUT.5.0.1.0 (UK Met Office), NOAAGlobalTemp v5 (USA),
NASA GISTEMP v4 (USA), Berkeley Earth (USA), ERA5 (ECMWF), and JRA-55 (Japan).
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 38
Global climate change education has so far not kept up with youth demand
Students and youth globally are demanding climate action and explain the effects of climate change in their region. Furthermore, 70 per
comprehensive and quality climate education to prepare them for a cent of youth can, at best, explain only the broad principles of climate
greener future. Nearly all countries (94 per cent) report that climate change. One in five youth feels unprepared for climate change based on their
change education is included in their curricula. However, evidence suggests education and is asking for more information to grasp its complexities. Youth
otherwise. An analysis of national curriculum frameworks in 100 countries have emphasized the need for interdisciplinary, action-oriented education
reveals that nearly half (47 per cent) do not even mention climate change. that is both globally relevant and tailored to local realities, along with
While 95 per cent of teachers acknowledge the importance of teaching adequate teacher support.
students about climate change severity, only about one-third can effectively
Record-setting rising sea levels are a severe threat to hundreds of millions of people
Record-high GHG concentrations are pushing global temperatures higher Global mean sea level, 1993–2022 (millimetres)
and trapping heat, with approximately 90 per cent of heat being absorbed
120
by the ocean. This is causing sea levels to rise through ice loss on land,
melting glaciers and ice sheets, and thermal expansion. According to the 100 Jan 24 0.6 132 — m Dm e/ cy 2r 022
World Meteorological Organization, global average sea levels have risen
faster since 1900 than in any preceding century over the past 3,000 years. 80
3.3 mm/yr
Sea levels continued to rise in 2022, reaching a new record since satellite Jan 2003—Dec 2012
60
measurements in 1993. Moreover, the rate of global mean sea-level rise has
doubled in the past decade – from 2.27 mm per year in 1993–2002 to 4.62 2.27 mm/yr
40 Jan 1993—Dec 2002
mm per year in 2013–2022.
20
Even with efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C, global sea levels are expected
to continue rising over the coming century, creating significant hazards for
0
communities worldwide. Small island developing States and low-lying urban 1993 1997 2001 2005 2009 2013 2017 2021
areas are particularly vulnerable, facing profound risks to coastal ecosystems Lower Upper Mean sea level (mm) Trend
and ecosystem services, economies, livelihoods, health and well-being.
Note: Based on satellite measurements.
Around 900 million people live in coastal zones at low elevations, equivalent Source: Laboratoire d’Etudes en Géophysique et Océanographie Spatiales (LEGOS); data from
to 1 in 10 people worldwide. The effects of sea-level rise and other climate AVISO altimetry (www.aviso. altimetry.fr). Taken from the World Meteorological
Organization’s State of the Global Climate 2022 report.
impacts are already forcing relocations in countries like Fiji, Vanuatu, the
Solomon Islands and elsewhere. Tuvalu even plans to create a digital version
of the island to replicate landmarks and preserve its history and culture
before it succumbs to rising seas.
The $100-billion-a-year climate finance goal by developed countries has yet to be met
Climate finance is critical to addressing the climate crisis. According to According to a recent UNFCCC analysis, developing countries’ needs amount
the UNFCCC, global climate finance flows reached an annual average to nearly $6 trillion by 2030 to meet their NDCs. The United Nations
of $803 billion in 2019–2020, a 12 per cent increase compared with Environment Programme estimates that adaptation costs alone could reach
2017–2018. This growth is attributed to increasing mitigation actions in up to $330 billion per year by 2030.
buildings, infrastructure and transport, as well as increased adaptation
The commitment of developed countries to mobilize $100 billion in climate
finance. However, despite the increase over the last decade, climate finance
finance annually by 2020 through to 2025 has not yet been met. According
falls short of the levels needed to limit warming. There is also an uneven
to an Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development report,
distribution of finance across regions. Furthermore, fossil-fuel-related flows
developed countries provided and mobilized a total of $83.3 billion in climate
exceeded climate financing for adaptation and mitigation in 2020.
financing for developing countries in 2020, a 4 per cent increase from 2019
Global climate finance flows, by sector, 2017–2020 (billions of US dollars) but still shy of the target. Furthermore, more than 70 per cent of climate
finance by developed countries to developing nations between 2016–2020
2017 350 159 132 60 25 13 was in the form of loans.
2018 322 120 136 62 34 12 The establishment of the Loss and Damage Fund at the 2022 United
Nations Climate Conference (COP 27) to provide financial support to the
2019 322 173 159 77 42 15
countries most affected by climate change impacts is the most recent step
in improving the channels of financial support to respond to the climate
2020 346 155 179 62 56 19
challenge. Reconstructing climate finance delivery schemes and designing
0 200 400 600 800 1000 a new climate finance goal in 2024 are the next milestones to urgently
Clean energy systems (mitigation ) Adaptation improve both the quantity and the quality of climate finance going forward.
Sustainable transport (mitigation) Both mitigation and adaptation
Building and infastructure (mitigation) Other sectors (mitigation)
Source: UNFCCC. 2022. Summary and recommendations by the Standing Committee on Finance:
Fifth Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows, Bonn: UNFCCC.
39 Goal 13 | Climate action
Life below water
• The ocean is in a state of emergency as increasing eutrophication,
acidification, ocean warming and plastic pollution worsen its health.
Additionally, the alarming trend of overfishing persists, leading to the
depletion of over one third of global fish stocks.
• While there has been some progress in expanding marine protected
areas, combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, banning
fishing subsidies and supporting small-scale fishers, action is not An elderly woman plants mangroves in Timor-Leste. Mangroves build
advancing at the speed or scale required to meet Goal 14. shoreline resilience, providing natural protection against erosion
and absorbing storm surges, protecting local communities and their
• To counter these trends, swift and coordinated global action is livelihoods.
imperative. This entails increasing funding for ocean science, intensifying
conservation efforts, advancing nature- and ecosystem-based solutions,
addressing the interconnections and impacts of human-induced
pressures, and urgently turning the tide on climate change to safeguard
the planet’s largest ecosystem.
Citizen science sheds light on the magnitude of ocean plastic pollution
Plastic is the most harmful type of marine litter, with over 17 million metric Selection of beach litter citizen science initiatives, 2023
tons clogging the ocean in 2021, a figure set to double or triple by 2040. (coverage, frequency and data collection method)
Plastic production has skyrocketed fourfold in the last 40 years, while Data
collection
recycling rates remain below 10 per cent. This has led to a ubiquitous Coverage Frequency method
presence of plastic debris in all ocean habitats, including in fragile Arctic National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration US west coast,
Marine Debris Monitoring and Assessment Project
Ocean ice. To gauge the extent of this environmental crisis, one valuable (MDMAP) worldwide
approach is to measure plastic beach litter density. Citizen science initiatives, Marine Debris Tracker (formerly part of MDMAP) Worldwide
relying on public volunteers gathering data during beach clean-ups, provide
Ocean Conservancy Trash Information and Data for Worldwide
crucial qualitative and quantitative insights to bridge monitoring gaps. Over Education and Solution (TIDES) and Clean Swell app
the last decade, there has been a rise in marine litter-related citizen science Coastal Observation and Seabird Survey Team – United States
Marine Debris
initiatives, with many using mobile phone applications to gather and post
Australian Marine Debris Initiative Database Pacific, Oceania
data. Standardized protocols and improved monitoring systems are also
being developed to enhance global efforts to address this pressing issue. Marine LitterWatch European waters
Annual clean-up Mobile app
Monthly surveys
Ongoing clean-ups Data sheets
Note: “Ongoing clean-ups” are volunteer-led and ad hoc.
Coastal eutrophication: a growing threat to marine ecosystems and communities
Agriculture, aquaculture and wastewater practices are contributing to In a striking signal of an ocean that can’t breathe, crustaceans, such as
nutrient loading in coastal areas, causing widespread coastal eutrophication crawfish and lobster, have been observed leaving the sea to survive. A recent
and algal blooms. These blooms lead to oxygen depletion, harm marine walkout in early 2023 in South Africa saw around 5 tons of endangered
life, contaminate seafood, and damage seagrass and coral reefs, among lobster escaping, prompting an emergency plan for their rehabilitation in
other impacts. The consequences are severe for marine ecosystem health, an already struggling fishing community. While blooms can sprout due to
local communities, fisheries and tourism. Satellite imagery reveals elevated natural processes, such as the upwelling of nutrient-rich waters or low-
coastal eutrophication trends globally in 2022 (above the 2000–2004 flow waters, human activities are the main driver behind their increasing
baseline), though different in magnitude from recent years. Consistently frequency, duration and expansion. With the added challenge of climate
high rates were found in the Arabian Sea, where blooms posed threats to change and its complex interactions with a warming ocean, the impacts of
fisheries, tourism and desalination plants, particularly during late winter and eutrophication on coastal communities are expected to worsen.
early spring, from 2018 to 2022.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 40
Expanding global ocean acidification monitoring is crucial to confront an unabating crisis
As greenhouse gas emissions soar, the oceans are silently absorbing The number of stations reporting ocean acidification data worldwide has
a quarter of annual carbon dioxide emissions. While this mitigates the tripled in recent years – from 178 stations in 2021 to 539 in 2023 – providing
impact of climate change on the planet, it comes at a great cost to the clearer insights. Nevertheless, data gaps remain in coastal Asia and Africa
careful balance in ocean acidity, damaging organisms and ecosystems. and the open waters of the South Atlantic, Pacific, Indian and Southern
Long-term observation sites in the open ocean have shown a continuous Ocean. Continuous efforts to build capacity to measure and report on ocean
decline in pH levels over the last 20 to 30 years, with far-reaching impacts. acidification, particularly in undersampled areas, are crucial to reducing the
Currently, the ocean’s average pH is 8.1, about 30 per cent more acidic than local, regional and global impacts of this phenomenon.
in pre-industrial times and changing rapidly. Ocean acidification threatens
the survival of marine life, disrupts the food web, and undermines vital
services provided by the ocean and our own food security. Moreover, this
phenomenon weakens and destroys corals and shoreline defenses, degrades
habitats and endangers fisheries, aquaculture and tourism. Increased
acidification also reduces the ocean’s ability to absorb CO and to mitigate
2
climate change.
Calculated surface pH values based on based on representative sampling stations, Surface ocean carbonate chemistry measurement locations, 2023
2005-2022 (pH total) (data-reporting countries and sampling stations)
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
200520062007200820092010201120122013201420152016201720182019202020212022
Maximum pH Minimum pH Mean pH Data-reporting countries Sampling stations
Despite improvements, stronger global Turning the tide: Recent marine agreements show
cooperation is needed to reel in illegal fishing promise for ocean protection
Globally, an estimated one in five fish caught originates from illegal, The global community has reinvigorated its commitment to combat
unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. This illicit practice is one of the destructive patterns affecting ocean health through several recent pacts.
greatest threats to marine ecosystems and fishing communities, distorting In March 2023, a historic agreement was reached on protecting marine
competition, undermining legitimate fishers, and devastating marine biodiversity in international waters – referred to as the High Seas Treaty
ecosystems and efforts to conserve marine biodiversity and sustainably – after nearly two decades of negotiations. Given that the “high seas”
manage fish stocks. Annual losses as a result of this practice are estimated make up two thirds of the ocean, this treaty, once ratified by countries, will
at 11 to 26 million tons of fish, with an economic value of up to $23 billion. help to provide vital protection against pollution, overfishing and habitat
destruction in these critical areas. Another significant milestone occurred
IUU fishing can be found in all types of fishing operations and takes place
in March 2022, when Member States endorsed a resolution to end plastic
not only in national jurisdiction waters, but also on the high seas. A key
pollution, including in marine environments, with plans to implement an
instrument to combat IUU fishing is the Agreement on Port State Measures.
international legally binding agreement by 2024. The adoption of the World
As of May 2023, the agreement had tripled its signatories since 2016 to
Trade Organization Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies in June 2022 furthered
reach 75 Parties, including the European Union, to effectively cover 101
ocean sustainability by banning harmful fisheries subsidies that have
States and 60 per cent of port States. Between 2018 and 2022, there
contributed to the depletion of the world’s fish stocks. Moreover, the United
has been some progress at the global level in implementing instruments
Nations Ocean Conference in June 2022 saw more than 100 Member States
to combat IUU fishing. However, more concerted efforts are needed to
voluntarily commit to conserve or protect at least 30 per cent of the global
ensure greater cooperation among all actors, from “sea to plate”, and more
ocean within marine protected areas and implement other effective area-
transparency and compliance with the international framework, along with
based conservation measures by 2030. These collective efforts demonstrate
strong legislation and greater monitoring and enforcement.
a renewed determination to revitalize our oceans and ensure a sustainable
future for marine ecosystems and communities worldwide.
41 Goal 14 | Life below water
Life on land
• Terrestrial ecosystems are vital for sustaining human life, contributing to
over half of global GDP and encompassing diverse cultural, spiritual, and
economic values.
• However, the world faces a triple crisis of climate change, pollution and
biodiversity loss. Escalating trends of forest loss, land degradation and
the extinction of species pose a severe threat to both the planet and
people.
Villagers in China’s eastern Yunhe County revive hillside farms with
• Despite some progress in sustainable forest management, protected eco-friendly practices, attracting global visitors and earning recognition
as a top ecotourism destination for the restoration of its ecosystem.
areas, and the uptake of national biodiversity values and natural capital
accounting, most improvements have been modest. The recently
adopted Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework provides
• To fulfil Goal 15, a fundamental shift in humanity’s relationship with
renewed impetus for Goal 15, outlining four outcome-oriented goals to
nature is essential, along with accelerated action to address the root
be achieved by 2050 and 23 targets to be achieved by 2030.
causes of these interconnected crises and better recognition of the
tremendous value of nature.
Deforestation and forest degradation remain major global threats
Two different guide layers for two- and three-line titles.
Forests are amonGgu tidhees lfaorr geedgset ocfa rrigbhotn-a laignnde db tieoxdt iavnedr sbiatrys raeres eunrvifoorirms (oannd E aacrctohu,n t for Trend in forest area as a proportion of total land area, 2015–2020
space for other languages).
crucial for mitigating climate change and providing essential goods, services
Swatches are of full, 75%, 50% and 25% color.
and livelihoods. However, nearly 100 million hectares of net forest area
All bars should be 0p6 wide
have been lost ovweirth t 0h esp paacisntg t wwitoh idn eccoaundterys .c Gatelogboraiel sf orest coverage decreased
and 0p2 spacing between country categories.
from 31.9 per cent in 2000 (4.2 billion hectares) to 31.2 per cent (4.1 billion
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart,
hectares) in 2020. Agricultural expansion is the direct driver of almost 90
0p6 spacing from main regions.
per cent of global deforestation (cropland accounts for 49.6 per cent and
Number labels should be inside color bars (ideally) and 0p3 from edge.
livestock grazingI ff ooru t3si8d.e5, lpefet-ra cligennetd) .a Ondil 0 ppa3 lamw ahya.rvesting alone accounted for
7 per cent of globNaulm dbeefro lrinees t0apt2i obnel ofrwo bmo t2to0m0 b0a rt. oS t2ro0ke18 .2.5pt.
Tick marks 0p3 long. Text 0p1 below tick mark.
Agriculture consuLemgeendd lcaartgegeo froierse rsigtehtd-a alirgenaesd , i1np 0m aapnaryt ,c 0opu3n btertiwese eanc croolsosr bLuabtbinle and
text.
America, the Caribbean, sub-Saharan Africa and South-East Asia between
Legend color bubble 0p6.
2015 and 2020. Conversely, many countries in Asia, Europe and Northern
Legend 0p6 below number line labels. Any note 0p6 below legend.
America maintained or increased their forest area over the same period.
Note uses hanging indent.
Global and regional efforts to sustain forest ecosystems as well as their
Improvement Slight or no improvement Slight deterioration
social, economic and environmental functions are essential, in particular for
Deterioration Insufficient data
developing countries and the tropics.
Note: Trend categories are based on thresholds for the compound annual growth rate between
2015 and 2020 as follows: Improvement: CAGR > 0.001; Slight or no improvement:
-0.0005 ≤ CAGR ≤ 0.001; Slight deterioration: -0.001 ≤ CAGR < -0.0005;
Deterioration: CAGR < -0.001.
Despite efforts to mobilize financing for biodiversity conservation, a persistent funding gap remains
Halting and reversing biodiversity loss requires a comprehensive approach services in 10 countries mobilized $10.1 billion per year. In 2021, ODA
combining regulatory and voluntary measures, while mobilizing and in support of biodiversity increased by 26.2 per cent from $7.7 billion
aligning financing for biodiversity. Economic instruments play a crucial role (constant 2021 prices) in 2020 to $9.8 billion. This rise can be attributed to
in incentivizing the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity – and international commitments such as the Aichi target on development finance,
can serve to mobilize finance and mainstream biodiversity across sectors. the recognition of the links between infectious diseases and ecosystem
They include policy instruments such as biodiversity-related taxes, fees destruction in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the parallel focus on
and charges, positive subsidies, payments for ecosystem services and addressing climate change and biodiversity loss. But despite progress, there
biodiversity offsets. ODA is another source of financing for biodiversity. remains a persistent funding gap for biodiversity conservation, emphasizing
the need to scale up the use and ambition of economic instruments to
Between 2017 and 2019, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
protect biodiversity.
Development (OECD) reported that 234 biodiversity-related taxes in 62
countries generated $8.9 billion annually and payments for environmental
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 42
Species extinction risk has accelerated each decade since 1993
Plant and animal species are vital for our existence, from pollinating one Red List Index rate of decline, by decade, 1993-2023 (Red List index and growth rate)
third of global crops to providing medicines and economic opportunities.
1
Yet, despite this importance, the world is currently facing the largest
extinction event since the dinosaurs disappeared. Habitat destruction, 0.95
invasive species, overexploitation, illegal wildlife trade, pollution and climate
change are propelling this crisis. The Red List Index, which measures species’ 0.9
extinction risk across mammal, bird, amphibian, coral and cycad species, has
deteriorated by about 11 per cent since 1993, with an accelerating decline 0.85 -3.12% from 1993—2003
each decade. Central and Southern Asia, Eastern and South-Eastern Asia, 0.813 -4.3% from 2003—2013
0.8 0.788 0.788
and Oceania have suffered the fastest declines. -4.48% from 2013—2023
0.754 0.754
In 2022, assessments revealed that 21 per cent of reptile species are 0.75
0.720
threatened, including the iconic Komodo Dragon in Indonesia, highly valued
0.7
for ecotourism but endangered by climate change and deforestation. Based
on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, it is
0.65
estimated that 1 million species globally may be threatened with extinction. 1993 2003 2003 2013 2013 2023
Urgent action is imperative to halt these potential losses, as they would have RLI Decadal growth rate
irreversible and profound impacts on nature and pose a serious threat to
human well-being.
Growth in protected area coverage of key biodiversity areas has largely stalled
Key biodiversity areas (KBAs) – areas of exceptional importance for species Mean proportion of marine, inland freshwater, terrestrial and mountain KBAs
and ecosystems – are crucial for conservation and sustainable development. covered by protected areas, 2015–2022 (percentage)
There are more than 16,000 KBAs globally, and since 2000, the average 100
coverage of KBAs by protected areas has nearly doubled across marine,
terrestrial, freshwater and mountain ecosystems. However, progress has 80
largely stagnated since 2015, with uneven growth across regions. The Europe
and Northern America region has more than half of its KBAs covered by 60
protected areas, while Central Asia, Southern Asia, Western Asia, Northern 43.2 45.6 42.4 44.5 42.2 44.3 38.3 40.6
Africa, and Oceania all have relatively low coverage. The recently adopted 40
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework represents a new political
20
commitment providing impetus to increase the protected area coverage of
KBAs to help safeguard the most significant natural habitats on our planet.
0
Alarming trends in land degradation call for urgent action to restore the Earth
Between 2015 and 2019, at least 100 million hectares of healthy and Proportion of degraded land, 2015 and 2019 (percentage)
productive land were degraded every year, affecting food and water security
Eastern Asia 24.8 26.3
globally. The loss is equivalent to twice the size of Greenland, impacting
Latin America and the Caribbean 15.7 21.9
the lives of 1.3 billion people, who are estimated to be directly exposed to
Central Asia 20.2 20.3
land degradation. Human activities like urban expansion, deforestation and
South-Eastern Asia 13.5 17.6
grassland conversion, coupled with climate change are direct drivers of land
Sub-Saharan Africa 6.7 14.6
degradation worldwide. Demographic and economic trends, governance
Europe 11.1 12.8
challenges, and technology and investment gaps also contribute indirectly.
Northern America 9.7 11.7
Western Asia 4.7 11.7
Sub-Saharan Africa, Western Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and
Southern Asia experienced land degradation at rates faster than the global Southern Asia 4.5 10.4
average. If current trends continue, restoring 1.5 billion hectares of land Australia and New Zealand 7.2 8.0
by 2030 will be necessary to achieve a land-degradation-neutral world. Northern Africa 3.3 4.6
Alternatively, halting any new land degradation and accelerating existing World 11.3 15.5
commitments to restore 1 billion hectares can surpass the neutrality
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
target. Land and ecosystem restoration offer cost-effective solutions to
2015 2019
address climate change, biodiversity loss, food and water security, and
disaster impacts. To this end, governments, businesses and communities Note: Regions and subregions may not include all countries.
must collaborate to conserve natural areas, scale up nature-positive food
production and develop green urban areas, infrastructure and supply chains.
43 Goal 15 | Life on land
2015 2022 2015 2022 2015 2022 2015 2022
Marine Inland freshwater Terrestrial Mountain
Peace, justice and
strong institutions
• Ongoing and new violent conflicts around the world are derailing the
global path to peace and achievement of Goal 16. Alarmingly, the year
2022 witnessed a more than 50 per cent increase in conflict-related
civilian deaths, largely due to the war in Ukraine.
• As of the end of 2022, 108.4 million people were forcibly displaced
worldwide – an increase of 19 million compared with the end of 2021
and two and a half times the number of a decade ago.
Shukri, the youngest member of Somalia’s first all-women media team,
• In 2021, the world experienced the highest number of intentional Bilan Media, films in Mogadishu amid the daily threat of targeted
violence against journalists.
homicides in the past two decades.
• Structural injustices, inequalities and emerging human rights challenges
are putting peaceful and inclusive societies further out of reach. To meet capacity of institutions to secure justice for all and facilitate peaceful
Goal 16 by 2030, action is needed to restore trust and to strengthen the transitions to sustainable development.
Global homTiwcoi ddiffeersen th guitid ea la y2er0s f-ory tweoa- arn dh tihgreeh-l inae mtitleisd. escalating gang and sociopolitical violence
Guides for edge of right-aligned text and bars are uniform (and account for
space for other languages).
Intentional homicides cause more deaths globally than conflict and Homicide rate, by victim’s sex, 2021 (deaths per 100,000 population)
Swatches are of full, 75%, 50% and 25% color.
terrorist killings combined. In 2021, there were approximately 458,000
All bars should be 0p6 wide 40
intentional homicwiditeh s0 –s ptahcein hg iwghitheisnt c nouunmtrby ecar tieng othriees p ast two decades. The
noticeable spike iann dk i0llpin2 gssp aicni n2g0 b2et1w ceaenn cboeu nptaryr tclayt eagtotrriiebsu.ted to the economic 36.6
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart,
repercussions of COVID-related restrictions, as well as an escalation of
0p6 spacing from main regions. 30
gang-related and sociopolitical violence in several countries. Taking the
Number labels should be inside color bars (ideally) and 0p3 from edge.
growing populatioIf no uitnstidoe a, lcecfto-aulingtn,e tdh aen hd o0mp3i acwidaey. rate was 5.8 per 100,000
23.2
population in 202N1u, mmbaerr gliinnea 0llpy2 lboewloewr btohtatonm t hbear .2 S0tr1o5k er a.2t5ep ot.f 5.9 per 100,000. 20
Even assuming thTaictk 2 m0a2rk1s h 0aps3 nloon gb.e Taerxitn 0gp 1o bne flouwtu tircek tmrearnkd.s, projections based
Legend categories right-aligned, 1p0 apart, 0p3 between color bubble and
on 2015–2020 suggest that the homicide rate will have fallen by just 24 per
text.
cent by 2030 compared with 2015, far short of the target of halving 2015 10
Legend color bubble 0p6.
9.0 9.3
levels. Legend 0p6 below number line labels. Any note 0p6 below legend.
5.6
In 2021, men andN bo ote y u ss aes c ch oan ug nin teg din d foen r t 8. 1 per cent of all homicide victims 3.7 5.1 2.0 1.7 4.1 1.7 3.5 2.4 2.2
0
globally, with a rate four times higher than that of women and girls. Regions Latin America Sub- Northern Europe Oceania Central World
and the Saharan Africa and and
with high overall levels of homicidal violence, such as Latin America and the Caribbean Africa and Northern Southern
Western America Asia
Caribbean and sub-Saharan Africa, record higher shares of male homicide Asia
victims than other regions. Additionally, data from 101 countries reveal that Male Female
more than 9 in 10 suspects of intentional homicides are men or boys.
There has been an unprecedented increase in civilian deaths in conflicts – the first since the adoption of
the 2030 Agenda
Civilian deaths directly related to 12 of the world’s deadliest conflicts Change in documented conflict-related deaths of civilians, 2015–2022,
increased by 53 per cent between 2021 and 2022, marking the first rise since (percentage)
the adoption of the 2030 Agenda in 2015. At least 16,988 civilians were
60
killed, with one in five victims being women. The use of heavy weapons and
+53
explosive munitions, including indiscriminate and disproportionate attacks, 40
rose from 13 per cent in 2021 to 39 per cent in 2022, signaling a shift in
conflict dynamics. Sub-Saharan Africa and Europe accounted for 90 per cent 20
of the deaths, with 4 in 10 occurring specifically in Ukraine. While there was
a 23 per cent increase in conflict-related casualties in sub-Saharan Africa, 0
-1
other parts of the world also saw increases in deadly incidents against
-7 -18 -16
civilians. These shocking figures demand a renewed global commitment -20 -26
to peace and security, with all parties involved in conflicts urged to abide -33
by international humanitarian and human rights law to protect the lives of -40
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
civilians, particularly those of children and women.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 44
Falling detection of victims of human trafficking during crises prompts new methods to track and
combat this hidden crime
Trafficking in persons is a hidden crime. Available data capture only the Change in the number of detected victims of trafficking in persons, by sex,
per 100,000 population, comparison from 2019 to 2020 (percentage)
number of detected victims, leaving many more unassisted and invisible
to authorities. Between 2017 and 2020, data from 141 countries revealed 60
187,915 detected victims of trafficking. Moreover, in 2020, the number of
30 26.0
victims of trafficking detected worldwide fell for the first time in 20 years, 38.0 22.0 41.0
14.0 3.0
a decrease of 11 per cent from 2019. This decline can be attributed to the 0 4.0 -24.0 -12.0 -26.0 -8.0
impact of COVID-19 preventive measures, which altered the dynamics of -24.0 -38.0 -44.0
-30
-67.0
exploitation and compromised the anti-trafficking response. One emerging
-23.0
result is the 24 per cent drop in the detection of victims of trafficking for -60
-52.0
sexual exploitation between 2019 and 2020. This is the result of victims
-90
-60.0
exploited in more concealed and dangerous locations. As more victims
are likely remaining undetected, increasing efforts are needed to tailor the -120
response to the real prevalence of the crime. Some Member States have
-150
shown promising results in testing and implementing new methodologies for North Central Western Eastern South North Sub- South East Central
America and and Europe Asia Africa Saharan America Asia America
prevalence estimates of trafficking in persons. South- Southern and and the Africa and the and the
Eastern Europe Central Middle Pacific Caribbean
Europe Asia East
Female Male
The global prison population keeps rising, creating overcrowding and concerns over the proportion of
unsentenced detainees
Access to justice is a fundamental human right for which reducing the Unsentenced detainees as a proportion of overall prison population,
2015 and 2021 (percentage)
number of unsentenced detainees is crucial. After rising steadily from 2015
to 2019, the global prison population declined in 2020 due to COVID-19. Central and Southern Asia 50.5
60.1
Then in 2021, the number of prisoners returned to an upward trend, totalling
Sub-Saharan Africa 38.4
11.2 million, with about one-third (3.4 million) held in pre-trial detention. 40.5
Central and Southern Asia has the highest percentage of unsentenced Oceania* 27.4
34.0
detainees (60 per cent), while Northern Africa and Western Asia have the Latin America and the Caribbean 41.4
32.9
lowest (21 per cent). While the overall share remained around 30 per cent
Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 27.8
from 2015 to 2021, Oceania saw an increase in the share of individuals 27.1
awaiting trial or sentencing, and Latin America and the Caribbean saw a Europe and Northern America 19.1
21.5
decrease. Northern Africa and Western Asia 25.2
21.2
Although prison capacity increased by 19 per cent from 2015 to 2021,
World 29.6
overcrowding remains a challenge. Almost half of countries with relevant 30.8
data (46 out of 96) reported operating at over 100 per cent of their 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
intended capacity, and 18 per cent were functioning at over 150 per cent. 2015 2021
Overcrowding adversely affects prisoner health and survival. The data * Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
suggest the need for countries to provide adequate space and resources for
prisoners to promote rehabilitation, reduce recidivism, and ensure prisoner
and societal well-being.
Drug trafficking is generating illicit financial flows The number of young parliamentarians remains
worth billions, fuelling corruption and diverting low, with few holding leadership positions
resources
In every region of the world except Europe, people under the age of 45
Illicit financial flows fuel corruption and divert criminal proceeds into are significantly underrepresented in parliament, relative to their share
legal and illegal economic activities. Drug trafficking is a major source of of national populations. Although the average eligible age to serve in
inward and outward illicit financial flows, particularly in countries affected parliament is 23 years, the proportion of members of parliament (MPs)
by cross-border drug flows. Recent estimates reveal that Mexican drug aged 30 and under has remained at about 2–2.6 per cent for the past five
cartels alone generated average inward illicit financial flows of $12.1 billion years. While the global median age is just over 30 years, the average age of
annually between 2015 and 2018, comparable to the value of the country’s an MP is 51 years. Young MPs hold limited leadership positions, with less
agricultural exports. Afghanistan, Colombia, Myanmar and Peru also than 9 per cent serving as speaker and 17.4 per cent as committee chairs. To
experienced billions of dollars of illicit financial flows from cocaine and increase the participation of younger parliamentarians, efforts must include
opiates trafficking. Opiates trafficking in Asia creates spillover effects, introducing quotas or lowering the age of eligibility.
leading to outward illicit financial flows in neighbouring countries. Measuring
the value of these illicit financial flows is vital to understanding the
motivations behind illegal activities and to developing effective policies to
combat them.
45 Peace, justice and strong institutions
Partnerships for the
Goals
• Developing countries are grappling with an unprecedented rise in
external debt levels following the COVID-19 pandemic, compounded by
challenges such as record inflation, escalating interest rates, competing
priorities and constrained fiscal capacity, underscoring the urgent need
for debt relief and financial assistance.
• While official development assistance (ODA) flows continue to reach
record peaks, the increase in 2022 is primarily attributed to spending on An Eduardo Kobra mural at United Nations Headquarters in New
refugees in donor countries and aid to Ukraine. York, donated by Brazil’s Permanent Mission, portrays sustainable
development: balancing present needs without compromising the
• Despite a 65 per cent improvement in Internet access since 2015, Earth’s ability to meet future generations’ needs.
progress in bridging the digital divide has slowed down post-pandemic.
Sustained efforts are required to ensure equitable access to the Internet
of a collective surge in action to provide developing countries with the
for all.
necessary financing and technologies to accelerate the implementation
• Geopolitical tensions and the resurgence of nationalism hinder of the SDGs.
international cooperation and coordination, highlighting the importance
In the wake of the pandemic, many developing countries are facing a debt crisis
The debt levels oTfw mo dainffyer cenotu gnutidriee lsa yreeras cfohre tdw ore- canodr dth hreige-hlisn ed tuitrleinsg. the pandemic, Debt service as a proportion of exports of goods and services, 2015, 2020 and 2021
posing a potentiGalu tidherse faotr teod geec oof nrioghmt-iacl iggnroedw ttehx.t Tanhde b taorst aalr ee uxnteifornrmal ( danedb atc ocfo unt for (percentage)
space for other languages).
low- and middle S- win ac to chm ese a c reo ou fn ft ur lli ,e 7s 5 r %e ,a 5c 0h %e d a n$ d9 2 5tr %il l cio oln o ri .n 2021, recording a 5.6 6.3
Northern Africa 16
per cent increase A lf l r bo am rs s2 h0 ou2 l0 d . b T e h 0e p 6r i wse id ewas primarily driven by an increase in 17.1
short-term debtw. Cithlo 0s esp taoc i7ng i nw i1t0hi nc coouunnttrryie csa tieng LoDrieCs s and LLDCs experienced a 9.1
and 0p2 spacing between country categories. Sub-Saharan Africa 10.7
higher debt-to-export ratio in 2021 compared with 2015. 10.4
If World, LDC, LDS or SIDS categories are spaced apart, 9.3
0p6 spacing from main regions. Latin America and the Caribbean 11.3
Moreover, challenges such as high inflation, competing priorities and rising 9.2
Number labels should be inside color bars (ideally) and 0p3 from edge. 4.1
borrowing costsI fh oauvtesi deex, alecfet-rabliganteedd atnhde 0 rpis3k a woaf yd.ebt distress. As of November Southern Asia 7
4.1
2022, more thanN humalbf e(r3 li7n eo 0upt2 o bfe 6lo9w) booft ttohme bwaro. rSltdro’sk ep .o2o5pret.st countries were
3.6
either at high risTki cokf ,m oarr kasl r0epa3d lyon ign., T deextb 0t pd1 ibsetrloews sti.c Mk meaarnkw. hile, one in four Oceania* 13.4
3.1
middle-income cLoeguenntdr iceaste, ghoormiese r itgoh tt-haleig mneadj, o1pri0t ya poafr tt,h 0ep 3e xbtertewmeeen pcooloorr ,b fuabcbeled a nd 2.1
text. Central Asia 4.5
a high risk of fiscal crisis. Some countries with unsustainable levels of debt 3.1
Legend color bubble 0p6.
service have already opted for sovereign debt restructuring, while others 7.6
Legend 0p6 below number line labels. Any note 0p6 below legend. Least developed countries 9.3
remain vulnerab Nle o. te uses hanging indent. 11.9
4.0
Landlocked developing countries 7.0
6.5
0 3 6 9 12 15 18
2015 2020 2021
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
Despite record-breaking global trade increases, the share of exports from least developed countries has
stagnated and is far off target
Exports of merchandise and services were already slowing down in 2019, The share of exports from LDCs in global merchandise trade was merely
but 2020 saw a decline comparable to the recession of 2009. As pandemic- 1.1 per cent in 2022, only a 0.07-percentage-point increase from 2021. The
related restrictions were gradually lifted, global exports increased sharply, target of doubling the share of LDCs’ exports by 2020, from its value of
by 24.8 per cent in 2021 and 12.3 per cent in 2022. Global trade reached a 1.02 per cent in 2011, has therefore not been met. On the other hand, all
record $32 trillion in 2022. Trade in goods accounted for about $25 trillion developing countries combined saw an increase in their share of global
(an increase of about 11.5 per cent from 2021) and trade in services totalled merchandise trade, reaching 45.3 per cent in 2022, a rise of 4 percentage
about $7 trillion (an increase of about 15.3 per cent from 2021). However, the points compared with 2016. This upward trend has been sustained over the
outlook for global trade in 2023 appears subdued, as a result of deteriorating past six years.
economic conditions.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 46
Official development assistance surged in 2022 owing to spending on refugees in donor countries and
aid to Ukraine
In 2022, net ODA flows by member countries of the Development Components of net ODA, preliminary data, 2022 (current dollars)
Assistance Committee (DAC) reached $206 billion (current price), marking
an increase of 15.3 per cent in real terms from 2021.41 This was the fourth
In-donor refugee ,c osts
consecutive year ODA surpassed its record levels, and one of the highest $29.3 billion
growth rates recorded in its history. However, total ODA as a percentage of
gross national income continues to remain below the target of 0.7 per cent,
reaching 0.37 per cent in 2022. Humanitarian aid,
$22.3 billion Bilateral development
projects, programmes and
The increase was primarily due to domestic spending on refugees and aid for technical co-operation,
$101.9 billion
Ukraine. Refugee costs in donor countries amounted to $29.3 billion in 2022,
representing 14.2 per cent of DAC member countries’ total ODA. Net ODA
to Ukraine accounted for $16.1 billion, representing 7.8 per cent of total ODA.
Multilateral ODA,
Initial estimates indicate that DAC countries spent $11.2 billion on activities $52.4 billion
related to COVID-19, down by 45 per cent compared with 2021. Net bilateral
ODA flows to African countries experienced a real-term decline of 7.4 per
cent compared with 2021.
Internet usage reaches two-thirds of the world’s population, but gender and connectivity gaps persist
An estimated 5.3 billion people – 66 per cent of the world’s population – Proportion of individuals using the Internet, 2015 and 2022 ( percentage)
used the Internet in 2022. This reflects a substantial increase of 65 per cent
Sub-Saharan Africa 16.0
from the 40 per cent coverage observed in 2015. The growth rate was 6.1 per 39.4
cent over 2021, but it falls short of the 11 per cent growth witnessed during Oceania* 12.2 48.1
the initial stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019–2020. Nevertheless, 2.7 Central and Southern Asia 16.5
50.2
billion people are still offline, highlighting that substantial work is still needed Northern Africa and Western Asia 43.8
75.7
to achieve the universal connectivity target by 2030. Universal connectivity Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 48.0
76.5
remains particularly challenging in LDCs and LLDCs, where only 36 per cent
Latin America and the Caribbean 54.3
of the population is currently online. 77.9
Europe and Northern America 74.7
90.9
Globally, 69 per cent of men are using the Internet, compared with 63 per Australia and New Zealand 84.7
97.4
cent of women. This means there were 259 million more male Internet users
than female users in 2022. Least developed countries 10.7 36.1
Landlocked developing countries 18.7
36.4
Small island developing States 36.3
66.3
World 40.0
66.3
0 20 40 60 80 100
2015 2022
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
The world needs more timely, detailed and accurate data to tackle a multitude of crises, but funding for
data and statistics is ever more scarce
International funding for data and statistics amounted to only $541 million in Status of implementation of statistical plans, 2022, (number of countries and
territories)
2020, a decrease of more than $100 million and $138 million from funding
levels in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Between 2018 and 2020, ODA Oceania* 2 3 6 12
funding for data dropped by more than 20 per cent. The reduced funding Australia and New Zealand 1 1 4
for statistics may impact the most vulnerable countries disproportionately. Sub-Saharan Africa 12 26 7 8
Latin America and the Caribbean 14 7 14 16
While data showed international funding bounced back to an estimated
Central and Southern Asia 6 6 2
amount of $693 million in 2021, this increase was mainly due to one
Northern Africa and Western Asia 15 3 3 4
donor, and total funding remained insufficient to meet the growing need Eastern and South-Eastern Asia 11 6 1
for more and better data. Countries still face long-standing challenges in Europe and Northern America 39 4 14
mainstreaming data activities, with a limited pool of donors and low strategic World 100 56 32 59
priority generally assigned to statistics.
0 20 40 60 80 100
A total of 156 countries and territories were implementing a national statistical Under implementation and fully funded Under implementation and not fully funded
plan in 2022, up from 150 in 2021, with 100 of these plans fully funded. Not implementing Information not available
However, due to the long-lasting impact of the pandemic and limited capacity
* Excluding Australia and New Zealand.
in strategic planning, many national statistical offices are implementing expired
strategic plans that may not meet emerging data needs.
4 Since 2018, the OECD has been publishing data on headline ODA volume and ODA as proportion of GNI on the grant equivalent basis. SDG 17.2.1 is measured on a net
ODA basis; therefore, the figures presented here may differ slightly.
47 Goal 17 | Partnerships for the Goals
III. Breaking through to a better future for all
The sobering picture of the Sustainable Development Goals being in The Goals remain a truly inspiring and unifying compass, and transformative
reverse halfway to our 2030 deadline is a clarion call to the world to progress can be made even in the face of adversity. Furthermore, this
redouble our efforts to eliminate poverty and hunger, advance gender generation is equipped with knowledge, technologies and resources
equality and overcome the triple planetary crisis of climate change, unprecedented in history and can draw on a wide range of normative
nature and biodiversity loss and pollution. Failure to heed that call will fuel frameworks. Breaking through to a better future for all demands that we put
greater political instability and displacement, further erode trust in public this advantage to use to lift hundreds of millions of people out of poverty,
institutions, upend economies and lead to irreversible existential changes advance gender equality, put our world on a low-emissions pathway by 2030
to our natural environment. Above all, it will cause immense suffering for and secure human rights for all.
current and future generations – especially among the world’s poorest and
The 2023 Global Sustainable Development Report provides a synopsis of
most vulnerable people and countries.
evidence showing that we can guide transformation toward sustainable
But we can turn things around. Although the overall picture is deeply and equitable outcomes. The sections below complement its findings and
concerning, the data also offers a glimpse of the possible, showing progress provide Member States with analysis and recommendations to unlock the
in a number of key areas from energy to Internet access and more. There rapid and deep transitions needed to deliver the Goals by 2030. The United
is also ample evidence that the transformation demanded by the Goals is Nations system will seek to mobilize support for a number of them, through
one of immense opportunity. And in the years since 2015, we have seen a set of high impact initiatives in the lead-up to and following the SDG
Governments, the private sector and the general public embracing the Summit.
Sustainable Development Goals.
World leaders should come together at the SDG Summit to deliver a rescue plan
for people and planet centred around the following three major breakthroughs:
Equipping governance and Prioritizing policies and Securing a surge in Sustainable
institutions for sustainable and investments that have multiplier Development Goals financing and
inclusive transformation effects across the goals an enabling global environment for
developing countries
A. Equipping governance and institutions for sustainable and inclusive transformation
Delivering change at the speed and scale required by the Sustainable They must become the core business of presidents and prime ministers, of
Development Goals demands more than ever before from public institutions parliaments and the private sector.
and political leaders. It requires bold decisions, the transfer of resources
Incentivizing, steering and advancing transformation is complex and can
from one sector to another, the creation of a new regulatory environment,
often result in unintended consequences or trade-offs. Public institutions
the appropriate deployment of new technologies, the advancement of
and public servants need to have capacities and strategies to continually
longer-term holistic perspectives, the mobilizing of a wide range of actors
revisit and adjust policy implementation in order to maximize benefits
and the capacity to advance disruptive change while strengthening trust and
and capitalize on synergies while understanding trade-offs and identifying
social cohesion.1 Each of those dimensions presents challenges for political
feedback loops, including by leveraging international human rights and
leadership and public governance systems. Together, they constitute a set
labour standards. They also need to be able to work across sectors and
of demands for which contemporary governance systems were not built.
contribute, including with budget alignment, to a whole-of-government
It is essential therefore to take action to equip governance systems for
approach to the Goals. The ability of institutions to steer and leverage digital
transformation.
technologies, in an inclusive and equitable manner, is also essential, as is a
Since 2015, Governments have responded to the Sustainable Development capacity to work in unison with the private sector and others to advance the
Goals in a variety of ways. Yet voluntary national reviews and research public interest.
studies demonstrate that nationalization of the Goals has not yet had the
Localization, anchored on the principle of multilevel governance and
necessary “normative and institutional impact, from legislative action to
multistakeholder collaboration, is a key approach to collectively propel us
changing resource allocation”.2 The Goals must become more than a means to
towards greater inclusion and sustainability. Local and regional governments
communicate change. They must become a guiding star that shapes national
have a key role to play in this process since 65 per cent of the Sustainable
policies, budgets, institutions and long-term national development planning.
1 See www.idlo.int/system/files/event-documents/2021_sdg16_conference_report_05072021.pdf.
2 See www.nature.com/articles/s41893-022-00909-5.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 48
and the diversity of religions and beliefs, as well as intercultural dialogue
and understanding, are also crucial for strengthening social cohesion and
sustaining peace. Culture and respect for cultural diversity, however, remain
undervalued and underutilized in the push for Goals-related progress.
Greater consideration of culture’s role in supporting the achievement of the
Goals – including within relevant indicators – would generate an important
boost for implementation of the Goals between now and 2030.
Access to timely and high-quality disaggregated data is essential. It can
multiply the efficiency and effectiveness of domestic and development
spending, generating a “data dividend” for implementation of the Goals. Yet
many countries lack the resources and capacities necessary to respond to
data demands and, as highlighted in section II above, there remain significant
gaps in the geographic coverage, timeliness and disaggregation of Goals
indicators. Domestic spending on data and statistics is low, and some 40 per
cent of national statistics offices saw a drop in funding during the pandemic.
There is little transparency around donor support in this area, and one study
estimated that development cooperation spending on data had dropped
Development Goals targets are linked to their work and mandates. As the
by more than 20 per cent between 2018 and 2020. Greater use of new
sphere of government closest to local communities, they are essential
data sources and innovative approaches – including geospatial information,
for responding to the erosion of the social contract and for protecting our
remote sensing, artificial intelligence and machine learning, crowd sourcing,
societies amid intersecting global crises. Since 2018, the voluntary local
qualitative methods, citizen-generated data and private sector data –
review global movement has provided an unprecedented push towards
represent new opportunities, although they are not without their own risks
localization. The more than 200 voluntary local reviews carried out to date
and challenges. Strong data governance, data literacy and data protection
have shed light on and raised the profile of local action as part of national
policies are essential, but today only about half of the least developed
action and international processes. In addition, the reviews have contributed
countries have such laws.3 Much more can be done to strengthen data
to advances in all dimensions of localization of the Goals – from data
ecosystems, and support from the United Nations and other international
innovation to planning and policy coherence, and to project development and
partners must also become more cohesive and effective.
financing. Even so, the resources of local and regional governments – financial,
human and technical – remain limited across the globe, hindering their Effective engagement with the global public and effective follow-up to
capacities to deliver basic services and drive development at the local level. Sustainable Development Goals commitments and implementation efforts
are essential to understanding progress, boosting public ownership and
The private sector is a critical driver of productivity, employment and growth.
identifying major objectives. By July 2023, 188 countries will have conducted
Business leaders are increasingly acknowledging the necessity and urgency
voluntary national reviews – the central instrument for Goals-related
of taking sustainability factors into account to achieve long-term success.
follow-up and review at the global and national levels. Overall, countries
Businesses are making sustainability and climate-related commitments
have improved the preparation of their reviews, engaging stakeholders more
daily. They must be held accountable for those commitments, and they must
systematically and combining multiple tools of analysis. Voluntary national
deliver. Corporate governance models, incentive structures and operating
reviews have also had a spill-over effect at the subnational level, with the
practices must be adjusted to align with the objectives of sustainable
growth of voluntary local reviews as a key example. With the Goals so far
development. Policies and regulations must facilitate long-term decision-
off track, and building on the lessons learned since 2015, it is time to take
making, include the pricing of externalities and phase out harmful subsidies.
Goals-related follow-up to the next level. It is essential for our attention
And we must see an improvement in the transparency and credibility
to shift from reporting national action to an international audience to
of sustainability labels and ratings, ensuring that all efforts are made to
strengthening national accountability for progress and transformation. This
eliminate rampant green-washing and Goals-washing.
calls for a systematic inclusion of Goals-related implementation efforts in
Culture is a global public good and a critical enabler and driver of progress national oversight systems, for more independent evaluations of national
towards the Goals. Culture serves as a source of knowledge, values and implementation, for the greater involvement of scientists in monitoring
communication, as a contributor to environmental sustainability and as and review, and for a fundamental rethink of the voluntary national review
a generator of economic activity and jobs. Respect for cultural diversity process.
Priority actions
Call upon all countries to deliver a national commitment to Invest in public sector capacity and infrastructure to identify
transformation of the Goals at the SDG Summit, including by setting trade-offs and drive large-scale change, enable complex decision-
national benchmarks for reducing poverty and inequality, making making, leverage digital technologies and boost implementation
achievement of the Goals a central focus in national planning and partnerships.
oversight mechanisms, and aligning national and subnational
budgets with the Goals.
3 See https://unctad.org/page/data-protection-and-privacy-legislation-worldwide.
49 Breaking through to a better future for all
Priority actions cont.
Recognize the central role of local and subnational governments in Take action to reap the data dividend, with a focus on the most
implementing the Goals, including by designing national enabling vulnerable groups, by working towards securing data for at least
frameworks to allow subnational governments to meet their 90 per cent of the Sustainable Development Goals targets in
devolved responsibilities and by strengthening their capacities each country by 2027, increasing domestic financing for data and
and resources to advance the Goals. Crisis mitigation, adaptation, statistics by 50 per cent from current levels by 2030, embracing
preparedness and recovery, should be anchored on the principles new data sources and innovative approaches, and adopting data
of multilevel governance, and multistakeholder and multisectoral governance and protection policies. Donors should also commit
collaboration. to increasing the share of ODA for data to at least 0.7 per cent
by 2030, for the full implementation of the Cape Town Global
Encourage the development of effective policies and a suitable
Action Plan for Sustainable Development Data.
regulatory framework to support the alignment of private
sector governance models, operating practices and disclosure Take monitoring, follow-up and review of the Sustainable
requirements with sustainable development objectives. Development Goals to the next level by boosting independent
evaluations of implementation, strengthening engagement
Give due consideration to the contribution of culture to the
with parliament and civil society, centring voluntary national
achievement of sustainable development in the formulation of
reviews on national commitments to transformation of the
national, regional and international development policies and
Goals, establishing official registration systems of voluntary
international cooperation instruments.
local reviews and supporting the further development of Goals
indicators with disaggregated data.
B. Prioritizing policies and investments that will drive just transitions and unlock progress across the goals
1. Close divides to leave no one behind
Recent crises have exposed unequal coping mechanisms and deepened
divides across various dimensions of well-being. As shown in section II of the
present report, above, the decades-long trend of narrowing global income
inequality has reversed, more people are fleeing conflict than at any time on
record, and the slum population is growing. The impacts of those reversals are
felt most by women and girls and by vulnerable and marginalized populations,
including persons with disabilities, migrants, refugees and internally displaced
persons, and Indigenous Peoples.
The world must act to close gaps and improve the well-being of the people
farthest behind and thus contribute to stability and resilience globally. Action
in the areas below can also have multiplier impacts across the Sustainable
Development Goals.
Provide shock-responsive, adaptive and universal social
In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals were agreed as an integrated
protection, and strengthen action to generate jobs for a just
and indivisible set of Goals and they cannot be achieved one at a time or in
transition
siloes. In the 2019 and 2023 editions of the Global Sustainable Development
Report, the evidence-based case is made that transformation towards Social protection and jobs creation and retention are the only refuge for the
sustainable development will be possible only if actions address systems large segments of society with no financial buffers and are crucial tools for
of goals and targets. Policy actions are needed to drive key transitions and reducing and preventing poverty, in particular when crises hit. During the
to serve as multipliers that advance progress across the Goals. National pandemic, many Governments rapidly expanded social protection coverage
priorities and contexts will determine the precise mix of policies and or benefits, often with digital tools, but many were one-time payments or
interventions, but combining actions and actors geared to leave no one short-term solutions.4 Most of those additional social protection and job
behind with those that balance human well-being and the stewardship of retention measures were implemented in advanced economies with the
nature can help build a holistic approach. resources to do so. In developing countries, many Governments now face the
prospect of having to roll back those measures in response to compounding
fiscal pressures.
4 Maya Hammad, Fabianna Bacil and Fábio Veras Soares, Next Practices – Innovations in the COVID-19 social protection responses and beyond (UNDP, 2021), available from
https://socialprotection.org/discover/publications/next-practices-innovations-covid-19-social-protection-responses-and-beyond.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 50
In addition, social protection coverage often excludes those who need it the Fully leverage digital technology to expand the foundations –
most, such as informal workers, in particular women.5 For instance, only including registries, digital IDs and financial inclusion – on which
28 per cent of persons with significant disabilities have access to disability more comprehensive, dynamic and adaptive social protection
benefits globally, and only 1 per cent in low-income countries.6 The current systems can be built.
global economic slowdown is also likely to force more workers to accept
lower quality and poorly paid jobs that lack job security and social protection.
The need for universal social protection and decent job opportunities Invest in women and girls
will only grow as the transitions to green and digital economic systems
accelerate and as demographic transitions unfold. Current rates of progress towards gender equality are set to leave half of
the world’s population and the world’s workforce behind. Gender parity for
Despite the devastating impact of today’s cascading crises on social labour-force participation had been slowing since 2009 – and it reversed
protection and livelihood opportunities, these shocks have also highlighted the in 2020.8 Women make about half as much as men do and carry a
opportunities for driving progress. Right now, there is a window of opportunity disproportionate share of care work, both paid and unpaid, which increased
to cement some of the gains and learn from positive experiences, with impacts during the pandemic.9 Rates of violence against women were reported to
that can cut across the Sustainable Development Goals.7 Social protection have increased considerably during the pandemic. By one measure, GDP
that is dynamic in terms of both coverage and the means of distribution can per capita would be almost 20 per cent higher if all gender employment
bolster capabilities to weather crises. There is also a strong investment case gaps were closed.10 This demands a dismantling of discriminatory laws, a
for expanding social protection and supporting job creation: investing in the shake-up in the existing social structures and norms, and the use of special
care economy, for example, could generate 280 million jobs globally, while measures and quotas for the targeted investment in women.
investing in the green and circular economy could create 100 million jobs,
both by 2030. The revenue from this job creation could fuel a virtuous cycle The world’s population is also drastically changing. According to a recent
that can accelerate just transitions and create more resilient, inclusive and United Nations study, greater parity in the labour force would do more to
equitable societies for all. Despite high up-front costs in some cases, investing sustain economies in ageing, low-fertility societies than setting targets
in these areas will yield long-term results that far outweigh immediate costs. for women to have more children. Yet it is estimated that, globally, the
Despite high interest rates, inflation and fragile debt situations, long-term, number of unintended pregnancies every year is a staggering 121 million, or
affordable financing to support social protection and decent job creation an average of 331,000 per day. Safeguarding access to quality sexual and
opportunities can and must be found. The United Nations Global Accelerator reproductive health for all and instituting family-friendly policies are the best
on Jobs and Social Protection for Just Transitions, launched in September ways to ensure that people can achieve their individual reproductive goals
2021, is supporting the design and implementation of inclusive and integrated and optimize their contribution to society.
policies and investment strategies for decent jobs with social protection, to
Priority actions
support just transitions for all. It also aims to establish national financing
frameworks and mobilize public and private domestic and international Leverage special measures and quotas to promote gender parity
resources, with the aim of expanding social protection to 4 billion people and across all levels of decision-making in political and economic life;
creating 400 million new, decent jobs by 2030. and accelerate women’s economic inclusion by closing the digital
divide, investing in women-owned businesses and reducing the
Priority actions
unpaid care and domestic burden for women and girls.
Expand investments in social protection floors as a percentage
Dismantle all discriminatory laws and practices, take action
of GDP in national budgets and make institutional changes to
to shape social norms that promote gender equality and
promote an integrated approach to achieving adaptive, shock-
ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health and
responsive and universal social protection and creating new,
reproductive rights.
decent job opportunities in the care, digital and green economies.
Pass laws and put in place emergency response plans that
Mobilize political efforts through the United Nations Global
prevent and eliminate violence against women and girls, both
Accelerator on Jobs and Social Protection for Just Transitions
online and offline, by 2025.
to channel funds from international, national, public and private
sources, including from the international financial institutions,
towards this aim.
Make the digital transformation work for everyone
Create active labour market policies to help workers upskill and
Persistent digital divides among and within countries stand in the way of
re-skill in order to keep or change their job, adapt to the green
widespread Goals-related progress and hamper the use of new data
and digital transitions and find ways out of poverty.
5 See www.wiego.org/resources/long-economic-covid-worlds-working-class-infographic.
6 United Nations, “Policy brief: a disability-inclusive response to COVID-19” (May 2020), available at
https://unsdg.un.org/sites/default/files/2020-05/Policy-Brief-A-Disability-Inclusive-Response-to-COVID-19.pdf.
7 International Labour Organization, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
UN collaboration on social protection: Reaching consensus on how to accelerate social protection systems-building (Geneva, 2022), available from
https://socialprotection.org/discover/publications/un-collaboration-social-protection-reaching-consensus-how-accelerate-social.
8 World Economic Forum, Global Gender Gap Report 2022 (Geneva, 2022), available from www.weforum.org/reports/global-gender-gap-report-2022/.
9 OECD, “Caregiving in Crisis: Gender inequality in paid and unpaid work during COVID-19” (2021), available at
www.oecd.org/coronavirus/policy-responses/caregiving-in-crisis-gender-inequality-in-paid-and-unpaid-work-during-covid-19-3555d164/.
10 See https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/37062.
51 Breaking through to a better future for all
sources. These gaps should be tackled holistically, not just at a whole- reach 70 per cent,13 with children with disabilities and other marginalized
of-government level but also at a whole-of-system level, with a focus on groups suffering disproportionately. As highlighted at the 2022 Transforming
infrastructure, digital skills and inclusive environments, supported by the Education Summit, ending the current crisis and making education fit to
global development community. tackle the world’s most pressing issues demands a sea-change in how
Governments and the international community approach and invest in
Navigating the double-edged sword of digital transformation, managing
education. Recent analysis shows that almost $100 billion a year is needed
digital risks and digital harms and leveraging the potential of technologies,
to allow countries to meet their national benchmarks for achieving Goal 4.
requires investing in inclusive and accessible digital infrastructure to ensure
A forthcoming policy brief on transforming education will elaborate on this
meaningful connectivity for all. The large gaps in access to technologies,
challenge as an input to the preparations for the Summit of the Future. The
connectivity and infrastructure – as well as the poor accessibility of
crisis in education is, however, a ticking time bomb. Urgent and focused
technologies themselves for groups such as persons with disabilities – have
action now will reap benefits for generations to come.
significant human rights and development implications. For instance, only
one person in 10 in the world has access to assistive technology products Priority actions
and services.11 The proliferation of robotics, artificial intelligence, quantum
Expand access to early childhood education, nutrition and
computing, the Internet of things and cloud and mobile computing can
health care, and leverage the forthcoming high-level meeting on
support human well-being and the Sustainable Development Goals.
universal health coverage to strengthen national health systems.
Enhancing digital literacy and data literacy in and outside the public
sector should focus on self-reliance and lifelong learning. Effective digital Equip social protection systems to address needs that arise
partnerships with the private sector and other stakeholders can produce naturally during the life cycle and during periods of low earning
applications to advance progress towards the Goals. The development by capacity, such as childhood, disability, childbearing and old age.
Member States of a global digital compact is under way and would be a step
Deliver on national statements of commitment to transform
in the direction of making digital technologies work for the public good.
education by taking concrete steps to invest more, more
Priority actions equitably and more efficiently in education, monitoring progress
at all levels and taking corrective action to improve basic
Invest in foundational inclusive and accessible digital
literacy, numeracy and digital literacy proficiency, ensuring a
infrastructures to ensure meaningful connectivity for all and build
future-oriented focus in education curricula and pedagogy and
digital literacy and data literacy in and outside the public sector.
leveraging technologies for greater access and learning.
Incentivize digital partnerships with the private sector and other
stakeholders to produce applications that further Goals-related
progress. Invest in peace
The data in section II of the present report show that one quarter of
humanity lives in a conflict-affected area. Development cannot wait in
Adopt a life-course approach to essential services and urgently
these areas. Investments in peace and sustainable development generate a
tackle the global crisis in education
virtuous cycle – with development gains addressing the drivers of conflict
Early and consistent investments in access to essential social services and and inclusive peace enabling development priorities to expand.
social inclusion can improve the prospects for work and well-being later in
Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals in conflict affected regions and
life and are fundamental to a strong social contract. Interventions during
those with humanitarian needs will break cycles of dependency and address
early childhood and adolescence can prevent subsequent limitations and
the underlying drivers of vulnerability. It is vital to ensure that persons affected
support socioeconomic mobility, while interventions in adulthood or older
by instability, conflict or violence have access to services and protection,
age can help individuals recover from past deprivations. However, systems
including the more than 100 million forcibly displaced people worldwide, of
today continue to take a fragmented approach. The limited focus on a life-
whom more than 32 million are refugees.14 Countries affected by conflict or
course and intergenerational approach and inadequate access to training
humanitarian disaster need their partners and supporters to act coherently.
opportunities for older persons hamper their ability to continue working or
They need peacebuilders, development practitioners and humanitarians who
find new employment.
can see the bigger picture. They need partners who do not work in isolation.
Quality inclusive education is key to preparing today’s young people for high- The United Nations must lead by example. All United Nations entities should
skill jobs and is a major contributor to health and well-being, gender equality work coherently and simultaneously to advance development priorities, meet
and climate mitigation.12 However, against the backdrop of pandemic-related humanitarian needs and build peace.
lost learning, education today is in deep crisis. In low- and middle-income
The New Agenda for Peace, being prepared for the Summit of the Future, will
countries, the share of children living in learning poverty – unable to read and
seek to reduce strategic risks by strengthening international foresight and
understand a simple statement about everyday life at age 10 – could possibly
capacities to identify and adapt to new risks and to focus on preventing conflict.15
11 See www.who.int/health-topics/assistive-technology#tab=tab_2.
12 Cordero EC, Centeno D, Todd AM (2020) The role of climate change education on individual lifetime carbon emissions.
PLoS ONE 15(2): e0206266. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0206266.
13 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), UNICEF and World Bank, The State of the Global Education Crisis: A Path to Recovery
(Washington, D.C., Paris and New York, 2021), available from
https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/416991638768297704/pdf/The-State-of-the-Global-Education-Crisis-A-Path-to-Recovery.pdf.
14 See www.unhcr.org/refugee-statistics/.
15 See https://dppa.un.org/en/new-agenda-for-peace.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 52
Priority actions • No new coal-fired power plants and their phase-out by 2030
in OECD countries by and 2040 in all other countries; end all
Strengthen investment in development priorities in conflict-
international public and private funding of coal;
affected areas and areas with humanitarian needs to address the
underlying drivers of vulnerability. • Ensure net-zero electricity generation by 2035 for all developed
economies and by 2040 for the rest of the world;
Proactively integrate persons and communities affected by
instability, conflict or violence, especially refugees and internally • Cease all licensing or funding of new oil and gas reserves –
displaced persons, into national systems of health care, education consistent with the findings of the International Energy Agency;
and employment. stop any expansion of existing oil and gas reserves;
• Support the preparation of investment-ready energy transition
plans consistent with these actions.
2. Leverage environment-human well-being
synergies Address critical bottlenecks to the deployment of renewables
in developing countries by ensuring access to battery storage
Human well-being is integrally connected to the stewardship of nature and technology, fostering resilient and diversified supply chains for
protection of the environment – the air, water, land and ecosystems that are critical raw materials, and by tackling the high cost of capital for
foundations for life. Achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development renewables in the developing world.
and the Paris Agreement depends on safeguarding these resources for
Triple finance and investment for renewable energy and energy
sustainability, equality and justice. If the current trajectory towards climate
efficiency, including by shifting fossil fuel subsidies to renewables
change, biodiversity loss, pollution and the degradation of ecosystems goes
and reforming the international financial architecture.
unaddressed, progress on the Sustainable Development Goals could unravel,
exacerbating hunger, poverty, conflict, natural disasters and public health Mobilizing financing to support energy compacts; call upon
emergencies. However, acting now in the below areas could boost progress multilateral development banks, development finance institutions
across the Goals and support the promise to leave no one behind. and bilateral agencies to do their part by taking more risk and
developing or repurposing financial instruments to lower the
cost of capital for renewable technologies – this can help expand
Accelerate access to energy for all and the shift to renewables cooperative models for the renewable energy transition, such as
the Just Energy Transition Partnerships.
Access to electricity in developing countries has increased, even during the
current period of crisis, while a lack of access to clean cooking solutions Strengthen international cooperation and collaboration to ensure
remains stubbornly persistent. The pace of progress needs to accelerate, transparency, accountability and credibility for these actions.
along with the reliability and affordability to reach everyone. This needs to
happen while also ensuring the transition to renewable energy systems,
supported by measures to increase energy efficiency. Secure food, water and sanitation systems
Immediate, deep, rapid and sustained reductions in the greenhouse gas Business-as-usual approaches are neither protecting the right to food and
emissions of the energy sector is imperative in order to preserve the 1.5°C water for a growing population nor safeguarding the environment to sustain
goal of the Paris Agreement, since energy accounts for more than two and secure the provision of these resources. Efforts to address hunger and
thirds of global greenhouse gas emissions.16 Accelerating the renewables food security are falling behind, even as direct greenhouse gas emissions
revolution is our best hope of ensuring energy security, affordability, access from agriculture are projected to increase by 6 per cent during the next
and independence, while keeping the 1.5°C target alive. At the same time, decade.19 Furthermore, access to clean water and water management
the transition to renewables must be proactively managed to minimize are at risk as climate disasters increase and several regions face severe
social disruption and maximize the many socioeconomic benefits, including water scarcity. Low access to sanitation and hygiene remains a major
economic growth, poverty eradication and job creation during the transition. and urgent challenge with devastating impacts on health, human dignity
Using solar and wind power to replace coal could save $23 billion a year.17 and the situation of women and girls. Rapid urbanization intensifies these
The transition would create 24 million to 25 million new jobs, far more than challenges but also offers opportunities to build more resilient, cost-efficient
the 6 million to 7 million jobs that will be lost.18 and inclusive cities. The nexus of food, water, sanitation and environment
sustainability must factor into development pathways holistically and
Priority actions
coherently, with adequate human, technological and financial resources.
Take immediate action to advance the global transition from
Since the 2021 Food Systems Summit, 117 countries have developed
fossil fuels to renewable energy, as proposed in my climate
national food system transformation pathways – with some having started
Acceleration Agenda:
implementing their pathways while others need technical and financial
16 See www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/data-tools/greenhouse-gas-emissions-from-energy-data-explorer.
17 International Renewable Energy Agency, Renewable Power Generation Costs in 2019 (Abu Dhabi, 2019), available from
www.irena.org/publications/2020/Jun/Renewable-Power-Costs-in-2019.
18 ILO, World Employment and Social Outlook 2018: Greening with jobs (Geneva, 2018), available from
www.ilo.org/global/publications/books/WCMS_628654/lang--en/index.htm.
19 See www.oecd-ilibrary.org/docserver/f1b0b29cen.pdf?expires=1678719176&id=id&accname=guest&checksum=D46813AB4B74489CA8839EE6843A7CF3.
53 Breaking through to a better future for all
assistance to move forward. System complexities are being built into Priority actions
emerging initiatives using data from socioeconomic models and biophysical
Strengthen links between public health and the conservation and
models. The United Nations Water Conference, held in March 2023,
sustainable use of biodiversity in sectoral policies.
mobilized new commitments to solve the water and sanitation crisis, with
the potential to generate dividends across the Sustainable Development
Raise government and stakeholder awareness, as well as capacity
Goals. For every dollar invested in water and sanitation, there is a $4.30
for monitoring and predicting the impacts of biodiversity loss on
return in reduced health-care costs for individuals and society.20
human well-being.
Priority actions
Follow up on the goals and targets of the Kunming-Montreal
Global Biodiversity Framework; and close the $700 billion
Integrate decision-making in the water, energy, food and
biodiversity finance gap. Increase financing from all sources by at
environment sectors to ensure good nutrition, strengthen food
least $500 billion per year, and eliminate and reform incentives
and water security and sanitation, support climate action and
harmful to biodiversity.
maintain biodiversity and forests.
Advance national pathways developed after the 2021
Food Systems Summit and on commitments at the 2023 Prevent new and reduce existing disaster risks
United Nations Water Conference, engaging all sectors and
stakeholders. COVID-19, conflict and climate disasters have shown just how vulnerable
Goals-related progress can be to shocks. Systematically integrating
Coordinate policy efforts across countries to better meet
risk considerations into planning for the 2030 Agenda can reduce the
nutritional needs while addressing climate change and inefficient
consequences of shocks, especially for the vulnerable, and the likelihood of
water and land use.
crises. It is also important to acknowledge that actions in one system can
create or reduce risks for another, as hazards cascade across systems.
Invest in green infrastructure to upgrade ageing infrastructure for
water management to ensure water access and reduce pollution.
Countries can shock-proof Goals-related progress by strengthening risk
management governance and adopting a multi-hazard and multisectoral
approach to dealing with pandemics or climate change that can disrupt
Protect biodiversity and natural resources societal and economic networks. The integration of disaster risk reduction
with climate, sustainable development and humanitarian action is also
The environmental resources that sustain life are under threat, with trends
needed, shifting the balance from responding to investing. The United
moving backward since the adoption of the 2030 Agenda. Yet more than
Nations policy brief on an emergency platform to strengthen the international
half of the world’s GDP is highly or moderately dependent on nature.21 Some
response to complex global shocks, an input into the preparations for the
1.6 billion people’s livelihoods depend on forests, where the highest levels
Summit of the Future, outlines how a more predictable and structured
of terrestrial biodiversity are found, making sustainable land management
response can help mitigate the risks to the most vulnerable countries.
critical to human well-being and poverty reduction. Another 680 million
people live in coastal megacities. Many coastal dwellers rely on aquaculture Strengthening disaster risk resilience requires leadership at the highest level of
for their livelihoods, and nearly half the world’s people depend on fish for government, engagement from all sectors and multistakeholder participation.
protein. Striking a better balance with nature is also a health priority. Land My initiative to ensure universal coverage of multi-hazard early warning
degradation and habitat fragmentation drive humans and wildlife into closer systems can ensure minimal loss of lives and livelihoods when disasters
contact, reducing biodiversity and increasing the risk of future pandemics strike. Collaborating to develop new tracking systems to record and analyse
through the spread of zoonotic disease. hazardous events and disaster losses and damages can also help. Greater
investments in capacity-building and transformative action on investments to
Protecting nature is also crucial for climate action, as forests and oceans
accelerate Goals-related progress pave the way for greater strategic foresight
help mitigate climate change by absorbing carbon dioxide. Oceans absorb
and the implementation of national disaster risk reduction financing.
one third of carbon emissions released into the atmosphere, but increased
absorption of carbon dioxide leads to ocean warming and acidification, ice- Priority actions
melting, sea-level rise and marine heatwaves, threatening the natural marine
Systematically integrate risk considerations into planning for the
ecosystems and populations reliant on oceans for their lives and livelihoods.
2030 Agenda by fully implementing the Sendai Framework for
The recent adoption of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030.
Framework at the culmination of the 15th United Nations Biodiversity
Ensure universal coverage of multi-hazard early warning systems
Conference represents a landmark agreement by Governments to guide
by 2027.
actions and funding to safeguard nature, protect indigenous rights and
sustainably manage other critical resources by 2030. The 2018 Regional
Agreement on Access to Information, Public Participation and Access to Link global data for public health emergencies and other
Justice in Environmental Matters in Latin America and the Caribbean can disasters.
facilitate implementation of global sustainable development agreements.
20 See https://news.un.org/en/story/2014/11/484032#:~:text=For%20every%20dollar%20invested%20in,United%20Nat ions%20World%20Health%20Organization.
21 Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, Global assessment report of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity
and Ecosystem Services (Bonn, Germany, 2019), available from www.ipbes.net/global-assessment.
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 54
C. Securing a surge in Sustainable Development Goals financing and
an enabling global environment for developing countries
Goals; and (c) expand contingency financing to all countries in need. The
Sustainable Development Goals stimulus also aims to ensure that resources
are invested in the areas needed to secure the Goals and just transitions.
Countries should align all forms of finance with the Goals, using tools such
as Goals-aligned integrated national financing frameworks.
Urgent action is also needed to prevent tax evasion and avoidance and illicit
financial flows, to boost international tax cooperation and to strengthen
national fiscal capacities for domestic resource mobilization.22 All countries
can use globally agreed concepts and tested methods to curb illicit finance.
Making budgets more credible and increasing the efficiency of budget
execution are also critical.
While the Sustainable Development Goals stimulus can be achieved within
the confines of the current financial architecture, adequate long-term
financing requires the reform of the international financial architecture in
order to overcome the major structural barriers that predominantly serve
wealthy countries and individuals. This calls for delivering on the Addis
Rising inflation, unsustainable debt burdens, the COVID-19 pandemic, Ababa Action Agenda and other international frameworks. It also calls
and the impacts of the war in Ukraine on the costs of food and energy and for ambitious efforts in order to: (a) go beyond GDP when determining
financing have significantly reduced countries’ fiscal space, undermining access to concessional finance; (b) create new financing models for global
their ability to invest in recovery efforts. Despite increased support from public goods; (c) change the business models of multilateral development
the international community to developing countries, these efforts have banks, aligning their mandates and operational models with the Goals; (d)
remained inadequate, exacerbated by an international financial system that strengthen the global financial safety net; (e) improve debt ratings; and
is not fit for purpose and that remains plagued with systemic and historic (f) create an effective sovereign debt workout mechanism. And it calls
inequities. for reforming the international financial architecture and global economic
governance structures to make them more inclusive and representative.
In addition, developing countries struggle to gain equitable access to the
These and other areas will be elaborated in forthcoming policy briefs on
global trading system and to the benefits of new technologies and the fruits of
reforming the international financial architecture and developing metrics
science and innovation – all of which continue to favour those countries that
beyond GDP, which will be part of a series of crucial inputs to Member
have benefitted historically from protectionism and global resource extraction.
States as part of preparations for the 2024 Summit of the Future. The
To reverse course and turbocharge the Sustainable Development Goals, it International Conference on Financing for Development in 2025 will provide
is essential for countries to have the resources they need at scale to invest a clear pathway to secure progress on the full range of issues addressed in
in both their immediate recovery and in long-term sustainable development the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.
outcomes, including climate action. This requires a two-pronged approach
International and domestic private investment in emerging and developing
that aims to secure a surge in Goals-related financing, while simultaneously
economies must be scaled up. The Global Investors for Sustainable
reforming the international financial architecture to make it resilient,
Development Alliance has put forward a definition of sustainable
equitable and accessible for all. It is also critical that developing countries
development investing to guide the private sector. It calls for sustainable
have better access to global trade, science, technology and innovation.
development investing in ways that contribute to sustainable development,
using the Sustainable Development Goals as a basis for measurement.
Attracting such investment at scale requires strong institutions and a
Deliver a Sustainable Development Goals stimulus and reform
conducive regulatory and operating environment. Transparent de-risking
the international financial architecture
mechanisms and guarantees around key risk markers must be scaled
To secure a surge in Goals-related financing in the short term, the up to secure greater private investment in the Goals without saddling
Sustainable Development Goals stimulus plan calls for an additional $500 Governments with even more debt.
billion per year in financing for sustainable development, to be delivered
Priority actions
through mutually reinforcing concessional and non-concessional finance.
Urge all countries and financial institutions to deliver the
The Sustainable Development Goals stimulus puts forward three main areas
Sustainable Development Goals stimulus and massively scale up
for immediate action: (a) tackle the high cost of debt and rising risks of debt
financing for the Goals to at least $500 billion per year.
distress, including by converting short-term, high interest borrowing into
long-term (more than 30-year) debt at lower interest rates; (b) massively Reform of the international financial architecture, and encourage
scale-up affordable long-term financing for development, especially through tangible progress on reform of multilateral development banks,
multilateral development banks and by aligning all financing flows with the increasing their capitalization, supporting the re-channelling
22 https://factipanel.org/docpdfs/FACTI_Report_ExecSum.pdf.
55 Breaking through to a better future for all
of special drawing rights through multilateral development banks, with regional and global production and supply chains, by meeting
better leveraging their capital bases, securing increases to grants environmental requirements and using digital trade infrastructures for
and concessional finance, and increasing their risk appetites. Also e-commerce. Approaches should be inclusive of micro, small and medium-
essential is providing de-risking mechanisms and guarantees to sized enterprises, and women-owned enterprises, with progress measured
attract private finance, and reforming their business practices by by sex-disaggregated trade and business statistics. Developing countries
explicitly linking their mandates to the Goals, including climate also need the policy space to implement coherent industrial, innovation,
action. trade and investment policies to mainstream trade into national and sector
strategies in support of the Goals. Collaboration at the multilateral level is
Encourage the development of fair and effective tax systems,
also essential to address vulnerabilities in supply, transport, distribution
aligned internationally, to support financing efforts at the national
chain infrastructure, and trade finance for micro-, small and medium-sized
level, including through Goals-aligned integrated national
enterprises to reduce disruptions from climate change, conflict and future
financing frameworks.
pandemics.
Decide to convene the Fourth International Conference on
Priority actions:
Financing for Development in 2025, building on the 2024 Summit
of the Future and the proposed United Nations Biennial Summit Strengthen a universal, rules-based, open, non-discriminatory
with the members of the Group of 20 and the members of the and equitable multilateral trading system, and call for the
Economic and Social Council, as well as heads of international alignment of trade regimes and national complementary policies
financial institutions. with the Goals.
Provide support to developing countries, including by scaling up
aid for trade, to build productive capacity, connect with regional
Harness trade to work for the Sustainable Development Goals
and global production and supply chains and boost trade in
Trade is a critical driver of economic growth, job creation and poverty goods and services that contribute to the energy transition and
reduction in developed and developing countries alike. But to realize decarbonization of supply chains.
the benefits, developing countries must overcome various barriers and
Ensure open, fair and contestable markets through competition
challenges that prevent their integration in regional and global value chains
and consumer policies, and collaborate at the multilateral level to
and investment networks.
address vulnerabilities in supply, transport and distribution chain
One major obstacle to trade is high transport costs, which can make infrastructure to increase resilience to conflict, future pandemics
goods uncompetitive in global markets. Developing countries also face and climate change.
price fluctuations for primary commodities, which can lead to volatile and
unpredictable export earnings. Unpredictable supply chains hinder the
timely delivery of intermediary and final goods, a problem clearly illustrated Revolutionize science, technology and innovation capacities
during the COVID-19 pandemic. Cumbersome customs processes and and exchanges
protectionist policies further impede trade flows. Moreover, the shift towards
The capacity for humanity to use science, technology and innovation to
knowledge-intensive services – such as professional services, government
confront crises in transformative ways, and for science, technology and
services, information technology services and telecommunications – has
innovation to deliver for the public good, was clear during the pandemic.
highlighted the importance of digital infrastructure and literacy. Data flows,
The potential for science, technology and innovation to be applied to the
which have been growing at close to 50 per cent annually between 2010 and
Sustainable Development Goals is vastly untapped, and institutional and
2019, make digital infrastructure fundamental.
other barriers that stand in the way of science, technology and innovation
Despite those challenges, several recent developments have generated new progress must be recognized and lowered.
momentum for leveraging trade for the Sustainable Development Goals.
Increasing funding for Goals-related research and innovation on underlying
The COVID-19 pandemic prompted emergency policies to remove trade
social issues, social policy and grass-roots innovations, in particular in
and financial roadblocks to accelerate the delivery of vaccines, therapeutics
low-income countries, would provide the data, evidence and analytical tools
and diagnostics. The Initiative on the Safe Transportation of Grain and
to better inform actions for the Goals. Access to knowledge, technology
Foodstuffs from Ukrainian Ports has helped countries to withstand shocks to
and opportunities to contribute to science, technology and innovation
trade caused by the war in Ukraine. The African Trade Exchange Platform is
development must be improved, including through strengthened technology
helping to address food, fuel and fertilizer shortages in developing countries.
transfer. Creative solutions for removing paywalls and sharing knowledge
After more than two decades of negotiations, WTO members reached the
need to be scaled up, and public-private partnerships should boost
landmark and novel multilateral Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies. The
digital infrastructure investments, but Governments have to ensure that
global system of trade preferences among developing countries is only one
appropriate regulatory frameworks are in place. Applying science to solve
ratification away from entry into force – a move that would allow preferential
complex interlinked challenges calls for cross-disciplinary collaboration.
tariff treatment, generating shared welfare gains of $14 billion.
A strong science-policy-society interface can build trust in science and
To maximize the role of trade in achieving the Sustainable Development evidence, as emphasized in the 2023 Global Sustainable Development
Goals, it is crucial to strengthen the multilateral trading system and align Report. Trust in the science behind COVID-19 vaccines and climate change,
it with the Goals. This system should be universal, rules-based, open, for example, needs to be built through open and inclusive deliberations for
non-discriminatory and equitable. At the same time, developing countries individuals to use technology solutions and change behaviour.
need support to build productive capacity and infrastructure to connect
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 56
Priority actions: decision-making, and transforming education to better prepare learners of all
ages for the future – will further support acceleration of the Goals.
Strengthen the science-policy-society interface to enable
the application of science, technology and innovation for the The United Nations development system is the strongest affirmation to
achievement of the Goals by taking all steps to strengthen the people across the world of the commitment of the United Nations to the
linkages between the scientific community and policymakers. Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, the General Assembly, in its
resolution 72/279, embraced an ambitious reform of the United Nations
Build trust in scientific knowledge by ensuring that information
development system to ensure that Member States had the transformative
is broadcast with integrity, including by instituting regulatory
support required to advance their national Goals-related ambitions. At
mechanisms and codes of conduct that promote integrity in
the midpoint of the Goals, the United Nations development system is
public information, as recommended by Our Common Agenda.
unquestionably better positioned to support Member State action for
Establish more efficient and effective technology transfer delivery of the Goals. The new generation of United Nations country teams
mechanisms and strengthen existing mechanisms such as the and the reinvigorated resident coordinator system are better aligning
Technology Facilitation Mechanism, while exploring new avenues with national priorities, shifting to higher-scale programmes and policy
for open science and open-source data. support. Resident Coordinators are convening in unprecedented ways
to help Governments harness means of implementation, in particular
Increase funding for Goals-related research and innovation financing. Some foundational challenges remain, in particular the insufficient
on underlying social issues and build capacity in all regions to implementation of the funding compact, especially in relation to core
contribute to and benefit from this research. and pooled funding; an underfunded and unsustainably funded resident
coordinator system, continued challenges in mobilizing support on economic
and financial issues, and insufficient integration from the regional to national
Maximize the contribution of multilateralism and the United levels. If the United Nations system is to step up in the second half of the
Nations development system to support acceleration of the Goals, then targeted and determined action is needed in these areas.
Sustainable Development Goals
Priority actions:
The above sections of the present report have demonstrated the degree to
Commit to an ambitious outcome at the Summit of the Future
which multilateralism can support national action to achieve the Goals. Our
in 2024 to further revitalize the multilateral system, fill gaps in
Common Agenda includes a wide range of recommendations to that end,
global governance and boost implementation of the Goals.
many of which are already under way.
Commit to fully supporting the United Nations development
The preparations for the Summit of the Future in 2024 provide a critical
system to improve delivery in support of Member States’
opportunity to leverage multilateralism’s capacity to support acceleration
efforts to drive transformation of the Goals for inclusivity and
of the Goals and to sustain Goals-related progress by planning for and
sustainability, including through delivery against the funding
tackling emerging challenges and addressing gaps and weaknesses in
compact, capitalizing the Joint Sustainable Development Goals
the international architecture that are undermining efforts to achieve the
Fund by at least $1 billion by September 2024 and putting in
2030 Agenda. Further action in a number of areas in the context of the
place an effective model to fully and sustainably resource the
Summit of the Future – including a global digital compact, progress on
resident coordinator system in 2024 and, in the interim, taking
reforms of the international financing architecture, measuring progress by
urgent action to plug gaps in the funding of the system.
going beyond GDP, ensuring that governance systems protect the rights of
future generations and facilitate the active engagement of young people in
IV. Looking ahead: towards a rescue plan for people and planet
The world has been rocked by a series of interlinked crises. Together, There are no excuses not to be ambitious. Never before have we had such
these have exposed fundamental shortcomings in the business-as-usual an abundance of knowledge, technology and resources to succeed in
approaches to sustainability, including the vulnerability and fragility of ending poverty and saving the planet. Never before have we carried such a
progress, growing inequalities, the life-long impacts of adverse events, responsibility to pivot to a bold set of actions.
increasing threats of irreversible change, risks of ignoring interlinkages, and
At the SDG Summit, we must match that abundance and responsibility with
the geographically imbalanced distribution of global assets for achieving
global, national and local commitments to deliver the finance, galvanize the
sustainable development.
leadership and restore the trust that together will put us on course to achieve
Tepid responses will not suffice for the millions of people living in the Goals by 2030.
poverty and hunger, the women and girls with unequal opportunities, the
communities facing climate disaster or the families fleeing conflict. We need
a full-fledged rescue plan for people and planet.
57 Looking ahead
Visual summary
End poverty in all its forms everywhere
In response to the
cost-of-living crisis,
If current
trends continue,
by 2030
575 million one third
only
105 countries
people will stiLl be of countries will have
living in extreme poverty halved their nationaL
announced almost
poverty levels
350 social protection
measures in the past
12 months
Many of the
(Feb. 2022 – Feb. 2023)
world’s vulnerable population
remain uncovered by social protection LDCs, SIDS and LLDCs
face higher vulnerability
to disasters
In low-income countries, only
Average annual number of
deaths or missing persons
per 100,000 population
8.5% 7.8% 23.2%
(2012-2021)
of children of vulnerable of older persons
2.80
People
1.85
1.24
0.86
received social protection cash benefits
(2020)
World LDC SIDS LLDCS
Worldwide, countries have increased government spending on
essential services (education, health and social protection) since 2015
2015 47%
2021 53%
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 58
End hunger, achieve food security and improved
nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
Zero Hunger Goal Little to no progress
has been made in reducing
at risk anAemia worldwide since 2000
Prevalence of anaemia in
women aged 15–49
600 million has remained stagnanT
More than People Worldwide
At around 30%
are projected to face hunger in 2030
Despite dropping in 2021,
1 3 people
in
high food prices continue to plague many nations
share of countries experiencing moderately
to abnormally high food prices:
48.1%
worldwide struggle
with moderate to severe
21.5%
15.2% food insecurity
2015-2019 2020 2021
Malnutrition persists Worldwide, jeopardizing children's
well-being and future development
STUNTING WASTING Overweight
Children under Age-5
148 MILLION 45 MILLION 37 MILLION
affected by:
(2022)
59 Visual summary
Ensure healthy lives and promote
well-being for all at all ages
Notable strides have been made towards
25 million children
improving global health outcomes
missed out on important
routine immunizations
in 2021
6 million more
than in 2019
146 out of 200
countries or areas have already met
or are on track to meet The under-5
mortality target
Malaria cases Have
Effective HIV treatment has cut surgeD worldwide
global AIDS-related deaths by
52% since 2010
MALARIA CASES
(MILLIONS)
At least one neglected tropical 247
245
disease has been eliminated in
47 countries
232
2019 2020 2021
Out-of-pocket payments
for health pushed or further pushed
A woman dies every
two minutes
381
from preventable causes
related to pregnancy
million people
and childbirth
(4.9% of population)
(2020)
into extreme poverty
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 60
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and
promote lifelong learning opportunities for all
Despite slow progress,
the world is falling far behind
the pandemic
achieving quality education
in
caused
Without additional measures, by 2030:
learning
losses
in 4 5 of
in
104 countries
84 million 300 million Only 1 in 6
studied
children and youth students will lack countries will
will be out of school basic numeracy/literacy achieve universal
skills secondary school
completion target
primary and secondary school completion
rates are rising, but the pace is slow and uneven
Low- and lower-
middle-income countries
Completion rates face a nearly
100 $100 billion
90
87% primary school annual
85%
80 LOWER
77% secondary school financing gap
74%
70
85% to reach their
60 Upper
58%
secondary school education targets
53%
50
2015 2021
61 Visual summary
Achieve gender equality and
empower all women and girls
The world is
out of goal 5 indicators:
15.4
not on track TO Achieve 23.1 “on track”
at a moderate
distance
gender equality by 2030 far or very far
61.5 off TRACK
At the current rate, it will take
300 years 286 years 140 years
to close gaps to achieve
to end child in legal protection and equal representation in
marriage remove discriminatory laws leadership in the workplace
Legislated gender quotas
are effective to achieve
Nearly half of married women
equality in politics
lack decision-making power
over their sexual and
women’s representation in parliament
reproductive health and rights
(2022)
1 in 5 young women
are married
before their 18th birthday
30.9% 21.2%
countries countries
applying quotas without quotas
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 62
Ensure availability and sustainable
management of water and sanitation for all
2.4 billion people
live in
water-stressed
Safe drinking water,
countries
sanitation hygiene (2020)
and
STILL OUT OF REACH
81%
OF SPECIES
for billions
DEPENDENT ON INland
wetlands have
IN 2022
declined since 1970
2.2 billion people 3.5 billion people 2.2 billion people
integrated
Lacked Safely Lacked Safely Lacked Basic water-resources-management
managed managed hanD Washing implementation
drinking water sanitation Facilities
needs acceleration
Number of countries per Progress Level
TO MEET 2030 TARGETS,
PACE OF PROGRESS WILL HAVE TO ACCELERATE
22 Substantial
Limited 55
6x 5x 3x 44 Close to
Moderate 52 Target
Drinking water For Sanitation hygiene
63 Visual summary
Ensure access to affordable, reliable,
sustainable and modern energy for all
Energy efficiency improvement
LIGHTS OUT:
must more than double its pace
675 million people
Annual energy-intensity improvement rate
still live in the dark
4 i n 5 ooff tthheemm aarree iinn
1.4% 3.4%
ssuubb--SSaahhaarraann AAffrriiccaa
Actual Needed
(2015-2020) (2020-2030)
(2021)
International public financing
for clean energy for developing
countries continues to decline
$26.4
BILLION
If current trends continue,
$15.8
BILLION
$14.0
1 in 4 people will still use unsafe and BILLION
$12.2
BILLION $10.8
inefficient cooking systems by 2030 BILLION
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
30%
Modern renewables power nearly of electricity,
but remain low in heating and transport
(2020)
HEAT TRANSPORT ELECTRICITY
Modern
10.4% 4% 28.2%
RenewAbles:
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 64
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth,
full and productive employment and decent work for all
5.2
Global economic
2.2
1.4 1.6
recovery continues,
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
but on a slow trajectorY
projection projection
global annual growth rate of real gdp per capita (%)
−4.1
2 billion Global unemployment is expected to fall
workers below pre-pandemic levels,
are in but not in low-income countries
precarious
informal
unemployment rate (%)
jobs without
2019 2020 2022 2023 Projections
low-income
social protection countries 5.2 5.9 5.7 5.7
WORLD 5.5 6.6 5.4 5.3
(2022)
1 4 young people
in
are not in education,
employment or training,
4 10 ADULTS
During the pandemic, in
in low- and middle-income countries
with young women more than
twice as likely as young men
opened their first bank account
to be in this situation
(2022)
65 Visual summary
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and
sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
Global manufacturing
Energy-related
GROWTH SLOWED FROM
CO emissions
²
Due to
reached
7.4 % 36.8 billioN
2021
metric tons in 2022
Inflation EnerGy Price
Shocks
a record high
3.3%
2022
Supply Global Medium-high and high-technology
Disruptions Economic
deceleration i ndustries experienced
strong growth in 2022
LDCs are likely to miss their 2030 target
butwith regional variation
of doubling manufacturing share of GDP
share in total manufacturing
Manufacturing value as a share of GDP in LDCs 47.7%
47.1%
24.2%
21.7%
14.0%
12.1%
Sub- Europe and Eastern
Saharan Northern Asia
2015 2022 2030
Africa America
(Estimated) (Target)
95% world
of the
82% 68% has mobile broadband access (3G or higher) (2022)
Sub-SAHARAN AFRICA Oceania* but coverage is only 82% in Sub-Saharan Africa and 68% in Oceania*
(*excluding australia
and new zealand)
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 66
Reduce inequality within and
among countries
In 2022,
COVID-19 triggers refugee numbers hit a record high of
the largest increase
34.6 million
in between-country inequality in three decades,
Among them were:
Children: 41%
CHANGE OF Between-country inequality
(2019-2020)
-0.8% 4.4%
Pre-Pandemic POST-Pandemic
Forecast Projection
reversing decades of income convergence
Globally,
Women are twice as likely as men
to report experiencing discrimination
The income differences based on their sex
between countries
decreased by 37%
1990 2019 between 1990 and 2019
tragic loss nearly
The of
7,000 lives along migratory
routes in 2022
underscores the pressing need for
immediate action to ensure safe migration
67 Visual summary
Make cities and human settlements inclusive,
safe, resilient and sustainable
Globally, only
ONE TWO
Slums 1.1 billion urban in
urban residents have
Residents are
o n t h e convenient access to
living in slums
(2020)
Rise public transport
2 billion more Are expected (2022)
in the next 30 years
Globally,
3 4 cities
in
Air pollution is no longer an
exclusively urban problem
towns experience
poorer air quality
than cities in Eastern and South-
Eastern Asia
(2019)
have less than 20%
of their area dedicated to
public spaces and streets
In the developing world
1 billion people lack access much lower than the
target of 45-50%
to all-weather roads
(2022) (2020)
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 68
Ensure sustainable consumption
and production patterns
High-income countries Despite calls for
a phase-out
leave a larger environmental footprint compared to
LOW-income countries fossil fuel subsidies
return and nearly
doubled, triggered
Material footprint per capita in high-income countries is by global crises
$732
10 times
That of low-income countries
billion
$375
Material
footprint billion
CAp Pe Ir TA 24 Metric
tons
2020 2021
2.5 Metric
tons
On average,
(2019) each person
High-Income Low-Income
Countries Countries wastes
120
kilograms
OF FOOD PER YEAR
Sustainability 62 countries + EU
introduced Company
Pathway
sustainability
485 policies
reporting has tripled
for sustainable
since 2016
consumption and
production shifts
(2019-2022)
69 Visual summary
Take urgent action to combat
climate change and its impacts
Earth’s
tipping
point
standing at the brink of climate calamity
Where we are What we need
2022
deep, rapid and
sustained GHG
the world will emission reductions
exceed 1.5°C by 2035 by 43% by 2030
and faces a 2.5°C and to net zero
warming by 2100 by 2050
1850
Billions to trillions:
global climate finance flows reached an
The rate of
$6 Trillion
annual average of $803 billion in 2019–2020
sea-level
rise has
However, developing countries
require nearly $6 trillion by 2030 Doubled
$803 billion
In the
last Decade
2019–2020 2030
(annual average)
Highly vulnerable regions
experience 15x higher mortality rates from disasters
compared to very low vulnerability regions
(2010–2020)
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 70
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, sea and
marine resources for sustainable development
preserve the blue, protect THE earth:
urgent actions needed to safeguard
the planet’s largest ecosystem
ocean emergency
Coastal Ocean Ocean Plastic Over-
eutrophication: acidification: warming: pollution: Fishing:
causing algal 30% higher than sea-level rise 17 million metric More than a third
blooms and in pre-industrial and affecting tons in 2021- of global fish stocks
dead zones times marine ecosystems 2-3x more by 2040 are overfished
citizen science beach clean-ups suffocating seas
shed light on the magnitude of coastal eutrophication Triggers
ocean Plastic pollution crustacean walkouts
ocean acidification 1 5FISH CAUGHT
in
ORIGINATES FROM
reporting stations have
ILLEGAL, UNREPORTED
tripled worldwide
AND UNREGULATED FISHING
2o21: 178 stations
2o22: 308 stations
2o23: 539 stations
71 Visual summary
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification,
and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
a fundamental shift in humanity’s 100 million
relationship with nature hectares
of healthy and
is essential
productive land was
degraded every year
Escalating from 2015–2019
equivalent to 2x the
size of Greenland
Forest LAND Species
losses DEGRADATION Extinction
pose severe threats to people and the planet
the world is
currently facing the
largest species
extinction Protected area coverage
of key biodiversity areas
event since
hasstalled
the dinosaur age
since 2015
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework
the
provides renewed impetus for conserving terrestrial ecosystems, with:
4 23
outcome-oriented goals by 2050 targets by 2030
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 72
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable
development, provide access to justice for all and build effective,
accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels
Steep rise in
conflict-related
more than
civilian deaths
108.4 million people
had been forcibly displaced
worldwide end-2022
as of
2.5X the number a decade ago
with an over 50% surge in 2022,
fueled by the war in Ukraine
Nearly
200,000
2021 saw
the highest number of
trafficking victims
intentional homicides
in 20 years
were detected worldwide
458,000 lives lost between 2017 2020
and
but many more likely
remained undetected
9 in 10 victims were male
Youth underrepresentation
face in politics,
hindering their participation in decision-making processes
30 51
Global median age average age of members of parliament
73 Visual summary
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize
the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development
Many developing countries
The share of exports from
are facing a debt crisis
LDC in global
s
merchandise trade
As of November 2022,
69
Debt 37 the world’s
distressed poorest countries
has stagnated 1%
37 69
out of
at around
of the world’s poorest countries
since 2011
were in debt distress or at high risk of it
$206
billion
Net ODA reached in 2022, up 15.3% from 2021
Mainly owing to spending on refugees
in donor countries and aid to Ukraine
Net ODA reached 0.37% of GNI,
still below the target of 0.7%
ODA funding for data
2 3
in people
used the Internet
in 2022 dropped
259 millionmore male than female users $
$ by more than
$
$
$ $
20%
(2018-2020)
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 74
Note to the reader
Global indicator framework for the follow-up and review of the Sustainable Development Goals
The information presented in this report is based on the latest available data Agency and Expert Group on SDG Indicators (IAEG-SDGs) and adopted by
(as of June 2023) on selected indicators in the global indicator framework1 the General Assembly on 6 July 2017 (see resolution 71/313, annex). The
for the Sustainable Development Goals. The global indicator framework is choice of indicators used in the report does not represent a prioritization of
used to review progress at the global level and was developed by the Inter- targets, since all goals and targets are equally important.
Data sources
The values for most of the indicators presented in the report are regional Although the aggregate figures presented here are a convenient way to
and/or subregional aggregates. In general, the figures are weighted averages, track progress, the situation of individual countries within a given region,
using the reference population as a weight, of national data produced by and across population groups and geographical areas within a country, may
national statistical systems and calculated by international agencies with vary significantly from regional averages. Presenting aggregate figures for all
specialized mandates. The national data are often adjusted for comparability regions also obscures another reality: the lack, in many parts of the world,
and, where lacking, are estimated. As decided by the United Nations of adequate data to assess national trends and to inform and monitor the
Statistical Commission and in accordance with Economic and Social Council implementation of development policies.
resolution 2006/6, estimates used to compile the global indicators should
A database of available global, regional and country data and metadata for
be produced in full consultation with national statistical authorities. The
the SDG indicators is maintained by the United Nations Statistics Division
criteria and mechanisms for validation by national statistical authorities
at https://unstats.un.org/sdgs. Owing to the emergence of new data and
are outlined in the report of the IAEG-SDGs2 and were endorsed by the
revised methodologies, data series presented in this report may not be
Statistical Commission at its fiftieth session.3
comparable with previous data series.
Regional groupings
This report presents data on progress made towards achieving the SDGs The term “country” used in this report also refers, as appropriate, to
worldwide and by various regional groups. The country groupings are based territories and areas. The designations employed and the presentation of the
on the geographic regions defined in the Standard Country or Area Codes for material in this report do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever
Statistical Use (known as M49)4 of the United Nations Statistics Division. on the part of the United Nations Secretariat concerning the legal status
The geographic regions are shown on the map on the right. For the purpose of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the
of presentation, some of the M49 regions have been combined. delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The use of geographic regions as the basis for country groupings is a major
change from The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2016 and the progress
reports on the Millennium Development Goals. Previously, data were
presented for countries in “developed” and “developing” regions, which
were further broken down into geographic subregions. Although there is no
established convention for the designation of “developed” and “developing”
countries or areas in the United Nations system, data for some indicators
in this report are still being presented for developed and developing regions
and countries for the purpose of statistical analysis only, and are based on
the practice employed by the international agencies that provided the data.5
The text and figures present, to the extent possible, data for least developed Sub-Saharan Africa Northern Africa and Western Asia Central and Southern Asia Eastern and South-Eastern Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean ASusutrablia- aSnda Nhewa Zreaalannd AfriOcceaania* EurNopeo arndt hNoerthrenrn AAmferriciaca and Western Asia
countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing
States, which are country groups requiring special attention. Notes: • • O Thc ee a bn oi ua n* dre af re iers s t ao n dO nce aa mn eia s e sx hc ol wud ni n ag n dA tu hs et r da eli sa i ga nn ad t iN oe nw s E uZ se eaa dls a on ntd e t, ht ihr sr no au n g dah oo tnu ht ed t rh m eS ap puo sb tlui hc ra ott uiho gn h-. oE ut a ths is t pue br licn at ioA n ds o i na ot imply official enC doe rsen mt er nta ol r aa ccn epd tan S ce o byu tht eh Une iter dn N aA tions si .a
Oceania* Europe and Northern America
A complete list of countries included in each region and subregion and
country group is available at https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/ Latin America and the Caribbean Australia and New Zealand
regional-groups/.
Notes: • Oceania* refers to Oceania excluding Australia and New Zealand,
throughout the publication.
• The boundaries and names shown and the designations used on this
and other maps throughout this publication do not imply official endorsement
or acceptance by the United Nations.
1 The complete list of indicators is available at https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/indicators-list/.
2 See the “Report of the Inter-Agency and Expert Group on Sustainable Development Goal Indicators” (E/CN.3/2019/2), annex I.
3 See Report of the Statistical Commission on its fiftieth session (E/2019/24-E/CN.3/2019/34).
4 Full details of the M49 standard can be found on the Statistics Division website at https://unstats.un.org/unsd/methodology/m49.
5 The discussion note, “Update of the regional groupings for the SDG report and database”, of 31 October 2016 describes the details of this change and is available at
https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/regional-groups.
75 Note to the reader
Photo credits:
Cover © UNICEF/Mark Naftalin
Page 4 © WHO/Yoshi Shimizu
Page 7 © UNDP Kenya/Allan Gichigi
Page 12 © World Bank/Dominic Chavez
Page 14 © WFP/Derrick Botchway
Page 16 © UNICEF/Radoslaw Czajkowskito
Page 20 © UNICEF/Ali Haj Suleiman
Page 22 © UN Women/Johis Alarcón
Page 24 © UNICEF/Mulugaeta Ayene
Page 26 © UNDP Lebanon/Rana Sweidan
Page 28 © ILO/Ahmad Al-Basha/Gabreez
Page 30 © UNDP Bhutan/Dechen Wangmo
Page 32 © UNICEF
Page 34 © World Bank/Yayo López
Page 36 © UNEP/Ollivier Girard
Page 38 © UNICEF/Asad Zaidi
Page 40 © UNDP Timor-Leste/Yuichi Ishida
Page 42 © UNEP/Braunosarus Studios
Page 44 © UNDP Somalia/Fadhaye
Page 46 © UN Photo/Rick Bajornas
Page 49 © UNDP Peru/Mónica Suárez Galindo
Page 50 © UN Photo/Martine Perret
Page 55 © UNDP Bolivia
Map credits: M aps on pages 14, 24, 25 and 42 are from the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Statistics Division.
Mapping data are provided by the United Nations Geospatial Information Section.
Design (report and Visual summary infographics on pages 58–74):
Mackenzie Crone and Dewi Glanville
Additional report design, graphics design, copy-editing, typesetting and proofreading:
Content Services Unit/Department for General Assembly and Conference Management
Editor: Jennifer Ross
Copyright © 2023 United Nations
All rights reserved worldwide
Requests to reproduce excerpts or to photocopy should be addressed to the Copyright Clearance Center at www.copyright.com.
All other queries on rights and licenses, including subsidiary rights, should be addressed to:
United Nations Publications, 300 East 42nd Street, New York, NY, 10017, United States of America.
Email: publications@un.org; website: www.un.org/publications
United Nations publication issued by the Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA)
ISBN: 978-92-1-101460-0
e-ISBN: 978-92-1-002492-1
ISSN: 2518-3915
e-ISSN: 251-3958
Sales No. E.23.I.4
The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023 76
In response to General Assembly resolution 70/1 requesting the Secretary-General to prepare annual progress reports on the Sustainable Development
Goals (para. 83), the present report was prepared by the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, with input from international and regional organ-
izations, and offices, specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system, listed below. Several national statisticians, experts
from civil society and academia also contributed to the report.
Alliance of Small Island States
Asian Development Bank (ADB)
Department of Economic and Social Affairs
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP)
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA)
Economic Commission for Africa (ECA)
Economic Commission for Europe (ECE)
Contents Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC)
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
International Energy Agency
Foreword ......................................................... 2
International Labour Organization (ILO)
International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Introduction ...................................................... 3
International Renewable Energy Agency
I. Promise in peril .................................................. 4 International Telecommunication Union (ITU)
International Trade Centre (ITC)
II. Sounding the alarm: SDG progress at the midpoint .................. 8 International Union for Conservation of Nature
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU)
Goal 1 No poverty........................................................ 12 Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS)
Office of Rule of Law and Security Institutions, Department of Peace Operations
Goal 2 Zero hunger.......................................................1 4
Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States
Office of the Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth
Goal 3 Good health and well-being......................................... 16
Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence Against Children
Goal 4 Quality education..................................................2 0 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR)
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
Goal 5 Gender equality ...................................................2 2 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
Partnership in Statistics for Development in the 21st Century (PARIS21)
Goal 6 Clean water and sanitation .........................................2 4 Peacebuilding Support Office, Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs
Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity
Goal 7 Affordable and clean energy........................................ 26
Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
Sustainable Energy for All
Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth..................................2 8
United Nations Capital Development Fund
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
Goal 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure..............................3 0
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
Goal 10 Reduced inequalities...............................................3 2 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)
Goal 11 Sustainable cities and communities .................................3 4 United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women)
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)
Goal 12 Responsible consumption and production ...........................3 6
United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)
Goal 13 Climate action.....................................................3 8
United Nations Mine Action Service
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction
Goal 14 Life below water...................................................4 0
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
Goal 15 Life on land .......................................................4 2 United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)
UN-Energy
Goal 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions................................4 4 UN-Ocean
UN-Water
Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals..........................................4 6
World Bank Group
World Health Organization (WHO)
III. Breaking through to a better future for all ........................4 8
World Meteorological Organization (WMO)
World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)
IV. Looking ahead: towards a rescue plan for people and planet........5 7
World Trade Organization (WTO)
Visual summary ...................................................5 8
For more information, visit the Sustainable Development Goals website of theStatistics Division of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs,
Note to the reader ................................................. 75 at https://unstats.un.org/sdgs.
93790-32
“Unless we act now, the 2030
Agenda will become an epitaph for
a world that might have been.”
— A GUTERRES
ntónio
S -G U n
ecretAry enerAl of the nited AtionS
ISBN 978-92-1-101460-0
